.TH "inetcat" 1
.SH NAME
inetcat \- Opens a read/write interface via STDIN/STDOUT to a TCP port on a usbmux device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B inetcat
[OPTIONS]
<DEVICE_TCP_PORT>
.SH DESCRIPTION
inetcat is a simple netcat-like tool that allows opening a read/write
interface to a TCP port on a usbmux device and exposing it via STDIN/STDOUT.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-u, \-\-udid UDID
Target specific device by UDID. Note that if this option is \f[I]not\f[] specified,
inetcat will connect to the first device found.
.TP
.B \-n, \-\-network
Connect to network device. The device needs to have WiFi sync enabled and
needs to be paired with this computer for this to work. Please note that
a device might close connections at any time to save power.
This option will make inetcat connect to network attched devices only,
unless \f[B]-l\f[] is passed too (see below).
.TP
.B \-l, \-\-local
Connect to USB device. This is the default if no option is passed. If used
together with \f[B]-n\f[], inetcat will first attempt a connection to a device
attached via USB, and if not available attempt to reach a device via network.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Prints usage information.
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-debug
Increase debug level.
.SH EXAMPLE
Use ssh ProxyCommand to connect to a jailbroken iOS device via SSH:

$ ssh -oProxyCommand="inetcat 22" root@localhost

Used in SSH config file to connect to iOS Device:

$ cat ~/.ssh/config
Host myiphone
  User root
  ProxyCommand "icat 22 UDID_of_my_iphone"
$ ssh myiphone

.SH AUTHOR
Adrien Guinet
.SH SEE ALSO
iproxy(1)
.SH ON THE WEB
https://libimobiledevice.org

https://github.com/libimobiledevice/libusbmuxd
