.TH KWBOOT 1 "2012-05-19"

.SH NAME
kwboot \- Boot Marvell Kirkwood SoCs over a serial link.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kwboot
.RB [ "-b \fIimage\fP" ]
.RB [ "-p" ]
.RB [ "-t" ]
.RB [ "-B \fIbaudrate\fP" ]
.RB \fITTY\fP
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

The \fBmkimage\fP program boots boards based on Marvell's Kirkwood
platform over their integrated UART. Boot image files will typically
contain a second stage boot loader, such as U-Boot. The image file
must conform to Marvell's BootROM firmware image format
(\fIkwbimage\fP), created using a tool such as \fBmkimage\fP.

Following power-up or a system reset, system BootROM code polls the
UART for a brief period of time, sensing a handshake message which
initiates an image upload. This program sends this boot message until
it receives a positive acknowledgement. The image is transferred using
Xmodem.

Additionally, this program implements a minimal terminal mode, which
can be used either standalone, or entered immediately following boot
image transfer completion. This is often useful to catch early boot
messages, or to manually interrupt a default boot procedure performed
by the second-stage loader.

.SH "OPTIONS"

.TP
.BI "\-b \fIimage\fP"
Handshake; then upload file \fIimage\fP over \fITTY\fP.

Note that for the encapsulated boot code to be executed, \fIimage\fP
must be of type "UART boot" (0x69). Boot images of different types,
such as backup images of vendor firmware downloaded from flash memory
(type 0x8B), will not work (or not as expected). See \fB-p\fP for a
workaround.

This mode writes handshake status and upload progress indication to
stdout.

.TP
.BI "\-p"
In combination with \fB-b\fP, patches the header in \fIimage\fP prior
to upload, to "UART boot" type.

This option attempts on-the-fly conversion of some none-UART image
types, such as images which were originally formatted to be stored in
flash memory.

Conversion is performed in memory. The contents of \fIimage\fP will
not be altered.

.TP
.BI "\-t"
Run a terminal program, connecting standard input and output to
.RB \fITTY\fP.

If used in combination with \fB-b\fP, terminal mode is entered
immediately following a successful image upload.

If standard I/O streams connect to a console, this mode will terminate
after receiving 'ctrl-\\' followed by 'c' from console input.

.TP
.BI "\-B \fIbaudrate\fP"
Adjust the baud rate on \fITTY\fP. Default rate is 115200.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
\fBmkimage\fP(1)

.SH "AUTHORS"

Daniel Stodden <daniel.stodden@gmail.com>
.br
Luka Perkov <luka@openwrt.org>
.br
David Purdy <david.c.purdy@gmail.com>
