# UAPI Header export list
# User exported sparc header files

include include/uapi/asm-generic/Kbuild.asm

header-y += apc.h
header-y += asi.h
header-y += auxvec.h
header-y += bitsperlong.h
header-y += byteorder.h
header-y += display7seg.h
header-y += envctrl.h
header-y += errno.h
header-y += fbio.h
header-y += fcntl.h
header-y += ioctl.h
header-y += ioctls.h
header-y += ipcbuf.h
header-y += jsflash.h
header-y += kvm_para.h
header-y += mman.h
header-y += msgbuf.h
header-y += openpromio.h
header-y += param.h
header-y += perfctr.h
header-y += poll.h
header-y += posix_types.h
header-y += psr.h
header-y += psrcompat.h
header-y += pstate.h
header-y += ptrace.h
header-y += resource.h
header-y += sembuf.h
header-y += setup.h
header-y += shmbuf.h
header-y += sigcontext.h
header-y += siginfo.h
header-y += signal.h
header-y += socket.h
header-y += sockios.h
header-y += stat.h
header-y += statfs.h
header-y += swab.h
header-y += termbits.h
header-y += termios.h
header-y += traps.h
header-y += uctx.h
header-y += unistd.h
header-y += utrap.h
header-y += watchdog.h
