.TH pcilib 7 "@TODAY@" "@VERSION@" "The PCI Utilities"
.SH NAME
pcilib \- a library for accessing PCI devices

.SH DESCRIPTION

The PCI library (also known as \fIpcilib\fP and \fIlibpci\fP) is a portable library
for accessing PCI devices and their configuration space.

.SH ACCESS METHODS

.PP
The library supports a variety of methods to access the configuration space
on different operating systems. By default, the first matching method in this
list is used, but you can specify override the decision (see the \fB-A\fP switch
of \fIlspci\fP).

.TP
.B linux-sysfs
The
.B /sys
filesystem on Linux 2.6 and newer. The standard header of the config space is available
to all users, the rest only to root. Supports extended configuration space, PCI domains,
VPD (from Linux 2.6.26), physical slots (also since Linux 2.6.26) and information on attached
kernel drivers.
.TP
.B linux-proc
The
.B /proc/bus/pci
interface supported by Linux 2.1 and newer. The standard header of the config space is available
to all users, the rest only to root.
.TP
.B intel-conf1
Direct hardware access via Intel configuration mechanism 1. Available on i386 and compatibles
on Linux, Solaris/x86, GNU Hurd, Windows, BeOS and Haiku. Requires root privileges.
.TP
.B intel-conf2
Direct hardware access via Intel configuration mechanism 2. Available on i386 and compatibles
on Linux, Solaris/x86, GNU Hurd, Windows, BeOS and Haiku. Requires root privileges. Warning: This method
is able to address only the first 16 devices on any bus and it seems to be very
unreliable in many cases.
.TP
.B fbsd-device
The
.B /dev/pci
device on FreeBSD. Requires root privileges.
.TP
.B aix-device
Access method used on AIX. Requires root privileges.
.TP
.B nbsd-libpci
The
.B /dev/pci0
device on NetBSD accessed using the local libpci library.
.TP
.B obsd-device
The
.B /dev/pci
device on OpenBSD. Requires root privileges.
.TP
.B dump
Read the contents of configuration registers from a file specified in the
.B dump.name
parameter. The format corresponds to the output of \fIlspci\fP \fB-x\fP.
.TP
.B darwin
Access method used on Mac OS X / Darwin. Must be run as root and the system
must have been booted with debug=0x144.

.SH PARAMETERS

.PP
The library is controlled by several parameters. They should have sensible default
values, but in case you want to do something unusual (or even something weird),
you can override them (see the \fB-O\fP switch of \fIlspci\fP).

.SS Parameters of specific access methods

.TP
.B dump.name
Name of the bus dump file to read from.
.TP
.B fbsd.path
Path to the FreeBSD PCI device.
.TP
.B nbsd.path
Path to the NetBSD PCI device.
.TP
.B obsd.path
Path to the OpenBSD PCI device.
.TP
.B proc.path
Path to the procfs bus tree.
.TP
.B sysfs.path
Path to the sysfs device tree.

.SS Parameters for resolving of ID's via DNS
.TP
.B net.domain
DNS domain containing the ID database.
.TP
.B net.cache_name
Name of the file used for caching of resolved ID's.

.SS Parameters for resolving of ID's via UDEV's HWDB
.TP
.B hwdb.disable
Disable use of HWDB if set to a non-zero value.

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR lspci (8),
.BR setpci (8),
.BR update-pciids (8)

.SH AUTHOR
The PCI Utilities are maintained by Martin Mares <mj@ucw.cz>.
