
generic-y += atomic.h
generic-y += auxvec.h
generic-y += bitsperlong.h
generic-y += bugs.h
generic-y += clkdev.h
generic-y += cputime.h
generic-y += current.h
generic-y += device.h
generic-y += div64.h
generic-y += emergency-restart.h
generic-y += errno.h
generic-y += exec.h
generic-y += fb.h
generic-y += fcntl.h
generic-y += ftrace.h
generic-y += futex.h
generic-y += hardirq.h
generic-y += hw_irq.h
generic-y += ioctl.h
generic-y += ioctls.h
generic-y += ipcbuf.h
generic-y += irq_regs.h
generic-y += irq_work.h
generic-y += kdebug.h
generic-y += kmap_types.h
generic-y += local.h
generic-y += mcs_spinlock.h
generic-y += mman.h
generic-y += module.h
generic-y += msgbuf.h
generic-y += param.h
generic-y += parport.h
generic-y += percpu.h
generic-y += poll.h
generic-y += posix_types.h
generic-y += preempt.h
generic-y += resource.h
generic-y += scatterlist.h
generic-y += sections.h
generic-y += segment.h
generic-y += sembuf.h
generic-y += serial.h
generic-y += setup.h
generic-y += shmbuf.h
generic-y += shmparam.h
generic-y += siginfo.h
generic-y += signal.h
generic-y += sizes.h
generic-y += socket.h
generic-y += sockios.h
generic-y += stat.h
generic-y += statfs.h
generic-y += swab.h
generic-y += syscalls.h
generic-y += termbits.h
generic-y += termios.h
generic-y += topology.h
generic-y += trace_clock.h
generic-y += types.h
generic-y += ucontext.h
generic-y += unaligned.h
generic-y += user.h
generic-y += vga.h
generic-y += xor.h
