.TH NTFSCK 8 "January 2017" "Tuxera NTFS Utilities 3017.7.18.13"
.SH NAME
ntfsck \- check and repair an NTFS file system 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ntfsck
[\fIoptions\fR] \fIdevice 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ntfsck
will check and repair an NTFS file system located on
.IR device
or an NTFS image file.
.SH OPTIONS
Below is a summary of all the options that
.B ntfsck
accepts. Nearly all options have two equivalent names. The short name is
preceded by
.B \-
and the long name is preceded by
.BR \-\- .
Any single letter options, that don't take an argument, can be combined into a
single command, e.g.
.B \-fv
is equivalent to
.BR "\-f \-v" .
Long named options can be abbreviated to any unique prefix of their name.
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-automatic\-repair\fR
Repair the volume if it appears to be in need of a repair. This options makes
.B ntfsck
exit immediately if the volume appears to be in order (no dirty flag set,
logfile clean, no hibernated Windows session, ...), but otherwise a full repair
is performed.  Note that volume is considered dirty if either one or more of
follwing is true a) dirty flag set b) logfile clean c) hibernated windows volume.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-fast\-check\fR
Check if volume is dirty then exit. If the volume is dirty then the
exit value will be 100. If used with
\fB\-m\fR/\fB\-\-mount\-check-only\fR then also repairs any issues
which prevent volume from being mounted. Read the definition of dirty volume
from \fB\-a\fR/\fB\-\-automatic\-repair\fR option.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-mount\-check\-only\fR
Check if volume can be mounted safely and if volume can be mounted
then exit. If volume cannot be mounted then fix it and exit. Also
works if used with \fB\-c\fR/\fB\-\-fast\-check\fR.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-simulate\fR
Simulate repair of the volume. This option caches all the changes made by ntfsck
in memory and never writes to the device. This can be done with a
write-protected volume to check what changes ntfsck would make if it would be
able to write to it. Exit value will be the same as you'd expect during a normal
repair.
.TP
\fB\-P\fR, \fB\-\-no\-progress\-bar\fR
Don't show progress bars.
.TP
\fB\-C\fR, \fB\-\-no\-alloc\-check\fR
Don't check cluster allocations. This option speeds up 
.B ntfsck.
Use this option with caution.
.TP
\fB\-O\fR, \fB\-\-no\-orpan\-check\fR
Don't check for orphaned files. This option speeds up 
.B ntfsck.
.TP
\fB\-M\fR, \fB\-\-no\-mft\-scan\fR
Don't scan $MFT.
\fB\-S\fR, \fB\-\-no\-sync\fR
Don't sync NTFS metadata before exit. This option speeds up 
.B ntfsck
however it's safe to use only if device is not removed/ejected.
.TP
\fB\-F\fR, \fB\-\-file\fR FILE
Check and repair FILE only. FILE is absolute path to a file or directory.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-inode\fR NUMBER
Correct inode NUMBER only and its children.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-timeout\fR SECONDS
Timeout in seconds before ntfsck will abort the volume check/repair. If
specified, this sets an upper limit on the execution time of ntfsck. After the
timeout occurs, ntfsck will clear all its pending tasks and return as soon as
possible.
.br
As a special case, a timeout value of 0 means that there is no
timeout, i.e. it is equivalent to not specifying the timeout option at
all.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-force\fR
This will override some sensible defaults. Use this option with caution.
.TP
\fB\-D\fR, \fB\-\-delete-crosslinked\fR
Delete cross linked clusters.
.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-crosslinked-check\fR
Run crosslinked check. Remember without this option we will see cross
linked messages i.e. information regarding cross linked clusters will
always appear in the output. It is disabled by default because resolving
cross-links without data loss means moving clusters around which may take extra
time if number of cross-linked clusters is high. If ntfsck with this option is
run periodically then it can be switched on.
.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-delete-crosslinked-if-no-space\fR
Delete cross linked clusters in case ntfsck cannot resolve them by moving to
empty space.
.TP
\fB\-w\fR, \fB\-\-mem\fR NUMBER
Set memory limit in system (in MB). This is useful for running ntfsck
in systems with low memory, and when user already knows the minimum
available memory which should be available. Chances of failure because
of low memory are reduced but not entirely removed. This can
still result in failure if required memory at certain stage in check
increases, and system really has nothing available at that point in time.
Chances of that happening are very less though. One disadvantage of not
having enough memory is that for large storage devices, ntfsck would take
more time to run.
.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-automatic-mem\fR
Same as \-\-mem but this time user doesn't mention available memory
and instead ntfsck tries to automatically detect it. Note that this
option also has similar limitations as mentioned in \-\-mem option
above description.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-playlog\fR
Play NTFS Journal if volume is dirty, needs a journal replay and $LogFile
isn't corrupt. In case $LogFile is corrupt reset it or if we encounter
specification changes or un-supported actions then also reset it.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-replay\fR
Same as \-\-playlog but doesn't invoke fsck run after journal has
been played.
.TP
\fB\-B\fR, \fB\-\-progress-fd\fR
This option is similar to '-C fd' in e2fsck. It causes fsck to write
progress of ntfsck to specified file descriptor. If file descriptor is
negative, then progress is suppressed and can only be enabled by
sending SIGUSR1 signal. Once this signal arrives absolute value of
input is used as file descriptor. SIGUSR2 signal can be used to stop
progress information being written to file descriptor.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Show a list of options with a brief description of each one.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Show the version number of
.BR ntfsck .
.SH EXIT CODE
The exit code returned by
.B ntfsck
is one of the followings:
.br
\       0\      \-\ No errors or file system was successfully repaired
.br
\       1\      \-\ File system errors could not be corrected
.br
\       23\     \-\ Volume is read-only 
.br
\       100\    \-\ Volume is dirty, needs check (\-\-fast-check was used) 
.br
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug please send an email describing the problem to
ntfs-support@tuxera.com. 
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B ntfsck
is part of the
.B Tuxera NTFS
package.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mkntfs (8)
