.\" Copyright (c) 2011 Erik Larsson / Tuxera Inc.
.\" See LICENSE file for licensing information.
.\"
.TH NTFSDEBUG 8 "Sept 2011" "Tuxera NTFS Utilities 3017.7.18.4"
.SH NAME
ntfsdebug \- Efficiently dump the metadata contents of an NTFS volume.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ntfsdebug
\fIdevice|image\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ntfsdebug
will efficiently extract all relevant metadata from an NTFS volume and dump 
it to standard output. It works at disk sector level and copies only the 
used data. Unused disk space becomes zero.
.B ntfsdebug
can be useful to exact the metadata snapshot of an NTFS file system for 
developers to investigate and troubleshoot users' issues using the clone 
without the risk of destroying the original file system.
.SH EXIT CODES
The exit code is 0 on success, non\-zero otherwise.
.SH EXAMPLES
Dump NTFS metadata on /dev/sda1 to a compressed metadata image:
.RS
.sp
.B ntfsdebug /dev/sda1 | bzip2 > sda1.img.bz2
.sp
.RE
Dump NTFS metadata on /dev/sda1 to a compressed metadata image in a system with less memory e.g. for 20 MB memory use:
.RS
.sp
.B ntfsdebug /dev/sda1 --mem 20 | bzip2 > sda1.img.bz2
.sp
.RE
Dump NTFS metadata on /dev/sda1 to a compressed metadata image but also collect a full NTFS Journal ($LogFile), use:
.RS
.sp
.B ntfsdebug /dev/sda1 --logfile | bzip2 > sda1.img.bz2
.sp
.RE
Dump NTFS metadata to a remote host, using ssh. Please note that ssh may ask
for a password.
.RS
.sp
.B ntfsdebug /dev/sda1 | bzip2 | ssh host 'cat > sda1.img.bzip2'
.SH KNOWN ISSUES
If you find a problem then please send an email describing it
to ntfs-support@tuxera.com.
.hy
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B ntfsdebug
is part of the
.B Tuxera NTFS
package.
