.TH MPSTAT 1 "AUGUST 2011" Linux "Linux User's Manual" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
mpstat \- Report processors related statistics.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mpstat [ -A ] [ -I { SUM | CPU | SCPU | ALL } ] [ -u ] [ -P {
.I cpu
.B [,...] | ON | ALL } ] [ -V ] [
.I interval
.B [
.I count
.B ] ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B mpstat
command writes to standard output activities for each available processor,
processor 0 being the first one.
Global average activities among all processors are also reported.
The
.B mpstat
command can be used both on SMP and UP machines, but in the latter, only global
average activities will be printed. If no activity has been selected, then the
default report is the CPU utilization report.

The
.I interval
parameter specifies the amount of time in seconds between each report.
A value of 0 (or no parameters at all) indicates that processors statistics are
to be reported for the time since system startup (boot).
The
.I count
parameter can be specified in conjunction with the
.I interval
parameter if this one is not set to zero. The value of
.I count
determines the number of reports generated at
.I interval
seconds apart. If the
.I interval
parameter is specified without the
.I count
parameter, the
.B mpstat
command generates reports continuously.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP -A
This option is equivalent to specifying
.BR "-I ALL -u -P ALL"
.IP "-I { SUM | CPU | SCPU | ALL }"
Report interrupts statistics.

With the
.B SUM
keyword, the
.B mpstat
command reports the total number of interrupts per processor.
The following values are displayed:

.B CPU
.RS
.RS
Processor number. The keyword
.I all
indicates that statistics are calculated as averages among all
processors.
.RE

.B intr/s
.RS
Show the total number of interrupts received per second by
the CPU or CPUs.
.RE

With the
.B CPU
keyword, the number of each individual interrupt received per
second by the CPU or CPUs is displayed.

With the
.B SCPU
keyword, the number of each individual software interrupt received per
second by the CPU or CPUs is displayed. This option works only
with kernels 2.6.31 and later.

The
.B ALL
keyword is equivalent to specifying all the keywords above and
therefore all the interrupts statistics are displayed.
.RE
.RE
.IP "-P { cpu [,...] | ON | ALL }"
Indicate the processor number for which statistics are to be reported.
.I cpu
is the processor number. Note that processor 0 is the first processor.
The
.B ON
keyword indicates that statistics are to be reported for every
online processor, whereas the
.B ALL
keyword indicates that statistics are to be reported for all processors.
.IP -u
Report CPU utilization. The following values are displayed:

.B CPU
.RS
.RS
Processor number. The keyword
.I all
indicates that statistics are calculated as averages among all
processors.
.RE

.B %usr
.RS
Show the percentage of CPU utilization that occurred while
executing at the user level (application).
.RE

.B %nice
.RS
Show the percentage of CPU utilization that occurred while
executing at the user level with nice priority.
.RE

.B %sys
.RS
Show the percentage of CPU utilization that occurred while
executing at the system level (kernel). Note that this does not
include time spent servicing hardware and software interrupts.
.RE

.B %iowait
.RS
Show the percentage of time that the CPU or CPUs were idle during which
the system had an outstanding disk I/O request.
.RE

.B %irq
.RS
Show the percentage of time spent by the CPU or CPUs to service hardware
interrupts.
.RE

.B %soft
.RS
Show the percentage of time spent by the CPU or CPUs to service software
interrupts.
.RE

.B %steal
.RS
Show the percentage of time spent in involuntary wait by the virtual CPU
or CPUs while the hypervisor was servicing another virtual processor.
.RE

.B %guest
.RS
Show the percentage of time spent by the CPU or CPUs to run a virtual
processor.
.RE

.B %idle
.RS
Show the percentage of time that the CPU or CPUs were idle and the system
did not have an outstanding disk I/O request.
.RE

Note: On SMP machines a processor that does not have any activity at all
is a disabled (offline) processor.
.RE
.IP -V
Print version number then exit.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
The
.B mpstat
command takes into account the following environment variable:

.IP S_TIME_FORMAT
If this variable exists and its value is
.BR ISO
then the current locale will be ignored when printing the date in the report header.
The
.B mpstat
command will use the ISO 8601 format (YYYY-MM-DD) instead.

.SH EXAMPLES
.B mpstat 2 5
.RS
Display five reports of global statistics among all processors at two second intervals.
.RE

.B mpstat -P ALL 2 5
.RS
Display five reports of statistics for all processors at two second intervals.

.SH BUGS
.I /proc
filesystem must be mounted for the
.B mpstat
command to work.

Only a few activities are given by the Linux kernel for each processor.

.SH FILES
.IR /proc
contains various files with system statistics.

.SH AUTHOR
Sebastien Godard (sysstat <at> orange.fr)
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sar (1),
.BR pidstat (1),
.BR iostat (1),
.BR vmstat (8)

.I http://pagesperso-orange.fr/sebastien.godard/
