.TH PIDSTAT 1 "AUGUST 2011" Linux "Linux User's Manual" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
pidstat \- Report statistics for Linux tasks.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pidstat [ -C
.I comm
.B ] [ -d ] [ -h ] [ -I ] [ -l ] [ -p {
.I pid
.B [,...] | SELF | ALL } ] [ -r ] [ -s ] [ -t ] [ -T { TASK | CHILD | ALL } ] [ -u ] [ -V ] [ -w ] [
.I interval
.B [
.I count
.B ] ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B pidstat
command is used for monitoring individual tasks currently being managed
by the Linux kernel.
It writes to standard output activities for every task selected with option
.B -p
or for every task managed by the Linux kernel if option
.B -p ALL
has been used. Not selecting any tasks is equivalent to specifying
.B -p ALL
but only active tasks (tasks with non-zero statistics values)
will appear in the report.

The
.B pidstat
command can also be used for monitoring the child processes of selected tasks.
Read about option
.B -T
below.

The
.I interval
parameter specifies the amount of time in seconds between each report.
A value of 0 (or no parameters at all) indicates that tasks statistics are
to be reported for the time since system startup (boot).
The
.I count
parameter can be specified in conjunction with the
.I interval
parameter if this one is not set to zero. The value of
.I count
determines the number of reports generated at
.I interval
seconds apart. If the
.I interval
parameter is specified without the
.I count
parameter, the
.B pidstat
command generates reports continuously.

You can select information about specific task activities using flags.
Not specifying any flags selects only CPU activity.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-C comm"
Display only tasks whose command name includes the string
.IR comm .
This string can be a regular expression.
.IP -d
Report I/O statistics (kernels 2.6.20 and later only).
The following values are displayed:

.B PID
.RS
.RS
The identification number of the task being monitored.
.RE

.B kB_rd/s
.RS
Number of kilobytes the task has caused to be read from disk
per second.
.RE

.B kB_wr/s
.RS
Number of kilobytes the task has caused, or shall cause to be
written to disk per second.
.RE

.B kB_ccwr/s
.RS
Number of kilobytes whose writing to disk has been cancelled by
the task. This may occur when the task truncates some
dirty pagecache. In this case, some IO which another task has
been accounted for will not be happening.
.RE

.B Command
.RS
The command name of the task.
.RE
.RE
.IP -h
Display all activities horizontally on a single line. This is
intended to make it easier to be parsed by other programs.
.IP -I
In an SMP environment, indicate that tasks CPU usage
(as displayed by option
.B -u
) should be divided by the total number of processors.
.IP -l
Display the process command name and all its arguments.
.IP "-p { pid [,...] | SELF | ALL }"
Select tasks (processes) for which statistics are to be reported.
.B pid
is the process identification number. The
.B SELF
keyword indicates that statistics are to be reported for the
.B pidstat
process itself, whereas the
.B ALL
keyword indicates that statistics are to be reported for all the
tasks managed by the system.
.IP -r
Report page faults and memory utilization.

When reporting statistics for individual tasks,
the following values are displayed:

.B PID
.RS
.RS
The identification number of the task being monitored.
.RE

.B minflt/s
.RS
Total number of minor faults the task has made per second, those
which have not required loading a memory page from disk.
.RE

.B majflt/s
.RS
Total number of major faults the task has made per second, those
which have required loading a memory page from disk.
.RE

.B VSZ
.RS
Virtual Size: The virtual memory usage of entire task in kilobytes.
.RE

.B RSS
.RS
Resident Set Size: The non-swapped physical memory
used by the task in kilobytes.
.RE

.B %MEM
.RS
The tasks's currently used share of available physical memory.
.RE

.B Command
.RS
The command name of the task.
.RE

When reporting global statistics for tasks and all their children,
the following values are displayed:

.B PID
.RS
The identification number of the task which is being monitored
together with its children.
.RE

.B minflt-nr
.RS
Total number of minor faults made by the task and all its children,
and collected during the interval of time.
.RE

.B majflt-nr
.RS
Total number of major faults made by the task and all its children,
and collected during the interval of time.
.RE

.B Command
.RS
The command name of the task which is being monitored
together with its children.
.RE
.RE
.IP -s
Report stack utilization.
The following values are displayed:

.B PID
.RS
.RS
The identification number of the task being monitored.
.RE

.B StkSize
.RS
The amount of memory in kilobytes reserved for the task as stack,
but not necessarily used.
.RE

.B StkRef
.RS
The amount of memory in kilobytes used as stack, referenced by the task.
.RE

.B Command
.RS
The command name of the task.
.RE
.RE
.IP -t
Also display statistics for threads associated with selected tasks.

This option adds the following values to the reports:

.B TGID
.RS
.RS
The identification number of the thread group leader.
.RE

.B TID
.RS
The identification number of the thread being monitored.
.RE
.RE
.IP "-T { TASK | CHILD | ALL }"
This option specifies what has to be monitored by the
.B pidstat
command. The
.B TASK
keyword indicates that statistics are to be reported for individual tasks
(this is the default option) whereas the
.B CHILD
keyword indicates that statistics are to be globally reported for the
selected tasks and all their children. The
.B ALL
keyword indicates that statistics are to be reported for
individual tasks and globally for the selected
tasks and their children.

Note: Global statistics for tasks and all their children are not available
for all options of
.B pidstat.
Also these statistics are not necessarily relevant to current time interval:
The statistics of a child process are collected only when it finishes or
it is killed.
.IP -u
Report CPU utilization.

When reporting statistics for individual tasks,
the following values are displayed:

.B PID
.RS
.RS
The identification number of the task being monitored.
.RE

.B %usr
.RS
Percentage of CPU used by the task while executing at the user level
(application), with or without nice priority. Note that this field
does NOT include time spent running a virtual processor.
.RE

.B %system
.RS
Percentage of CPU used by the task while executing at the system level
(kernel).
.RE

.B %guest
.RS
Percentage of CPU spent by the task in virtual machine (running a virtual
processor).
.RE

.B %CPU
.RS
Total percentage of CPU time used by the task. In an SMP environment,
the task's CPU usage will be divided by the total number of CPU's if
option
.B -I
has been entered on the command line.
.RE

.B CPU
.RS
Processor number to which the task is attached.
.RE

.B Command
.RS
The command name of the task.
.RE

When reporting global statistics for tasks and all their children,
the following values are displayed:

.B PID
.RS
The identification number of the task which is being monitored
together with its children.
.RE

.B usr-ms
.RS
Total number of milliseconds spent
by the task and all its children while executing at the
user level (application), with or without nice priority, and
collected during the interval of time. Note that this field does
NOT include time spent running a virtual processor.
.RE

.B system-ms
.RS
Total number of milliseconds spent
by the task and all its children while executing at the
system level (kernel), and collected during the interval of time.
.RE

.B guest-ms
.RS
Total number of milliseconds spent
by the task and all its children in virtual machine (running a virtual
processor).
.RE

.B Command
.RS
The command name of the task which is being monitored
together with its children.
.RE
.RE
.IP -V
Print version number then exit.
.IP -w
Report task switching activity (kernels 2.6.23 and later only).
The following values are displayed:

.B PID
.RS
.RS
The identification number of the task being monitored.
.RE

.B cswch/s
.RS
Total number of voluntary context switches the task made per second.
A voluntary context switch occurs when a task blocks because it
requires a resource that is unavailable.
.RE

.B nvcswch/s
.RS
Total number of non voluntary context switches the task made per second.
A involuntary context switch takes place when a task executes
for the duration of its time slice and then is forced to relinquish the
processor.
.RE

.B Command
.RS
The command name of the task.
.RE
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
The
.B pidstat
command takes into account the following environment variable:

.IP S_TIME_FORMAT
If this variable exists and its value is
.BR ISO
then the current locale will be ignored when printing the date in the report header.
The
.B pidstat
command will use the ISO 8601 format (YYYY-MM-DD) instead.

.SH EXAMPLES
.B pidstat 2 5
.RS
Display five reports of CPU statistics for every active task in the system
at two second intervals.
.RE

.B pidstat -r -p 1643 2 5
.RS
Display five reports of page faults and memory statistics for
PID 1643 at two second intervals.
.RE

.B pidstat -C """fox|bird"" -r -p ALL
.RS
Display global page faults and memory statistics for all the
processes whose command name includes the string "fox" or "bird".
.RE

.B pidstat -T CHILD -r 2 5
.RS
Display five reports of page faults statistics at two second intervals
for the child processes of all tasks in the system. Only child processes
with non-zero statistics values are displayed.
.SH BUGS
.I /proc
filesystem must be mounted for the
.B pidstat
command to work.

.SH FILES
.IR /proc
contains various files with system statistics.

.SH AUTHOR
Sebastien Godard (sysstat <at> orange.fr)
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sar (1),
.BR top (1),
.BR ps (1),
.BR mpstat (1),
.BR iostat (1),
.BR vmstat (8)

.I http://pagesperso-orange.fr/sebastien.godard/
