.TH GENL 8 "29 Oct 2015" "iproute2" "Linux"
.SH NAME
genl \- generic netlink utility frontend
.SH SYNOPSIS
.in +8
.ti -8
.BR genl " [ " -s [ tatistics "] ] [ " -d [ etails "] ] [ " -r [ aw "] ] " OBJECT

.ti -8
.BR genl " { " -V [ ersion "] | " -h [ elp "] }"

.ti -8
.IR OBJECT " := { "
.B ctrl
.IR CTRL_OPTS " }"

.ti -8
.IR CTRL_OPTS " := { "
.BR help " | " list " | " monitor " | " get
.IR PARMS " }"

.ti -8
.IR PARMS " := { "
.B name
.IR NAME " | "
.B id
.IR ID " }"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B genl
utility provides a simple frontend to the generic netlink library. Although it's
designed to support multiple
.IR OBJECT s,
for now only the
.B ctrl
object is available, which is used to query the generic netlink controller.
.SS ctrl
The generic netlink controller can be queried in various ways:
.TP
.B help
This command just prints a help text for the
.B ctrl
object.
.TP
.B list
Show the registered netlink users.
.TP
.B monitor
Listen for generic netlink notifications.
.TP
.B get
Query the controller for a given user, identified either by
.BR name " or " id .
.SH OPTIONS
genl supports the following options.
.TP
.B \-h, \-help
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B \-V, \-Version
Show version of program.
.TP
.B \-s, \-stats, \-statistics
Show object statistics.
.TP
.B \-d, \-details
Show object details.
.TP
.B \-r, \-raw
Dump raw output only.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ip (8)
.br
.SH AUTHOR
genl was written by Jamal Hadi Salim <hadi@cyberus.ca>.
.PP
This manual page was written by Petr Sabata <contyk@redhat.com>.
