# UAPI Header export list
include include/uapi/asm-generic/Kbuild.asm

generic-y += auxvec.h
generic-y += msgbuf.h
generic-y += sembuf.h
generic-y += shmbuf.h
generic-y += socket.h
generic-y += sockios.h
generic-y += termbits.h
generic-y += termios.h

header-y += a.out.h
header-y += bootinfo.h
header-y += bootinfo-amiga.h
header-y += bootinfo-apollo.h
header-y += bootinfo-atari.h
header-y += bootinfo-hp300.h
header-y += bootinfo-mac.h
header-y += bootinfo-q40.h
header-y += bootinfo-vme.h
header-y += byteorder.h
header-y += cachectl.h
header-y += fcntl.h
header-y += ioctls.h
header-y += param.h
header-y += poll.h
header-y += posix_types.h
header-y += ptrace.h
header-y += setup.h
header-y += sigcontext.h
header-y += signal.h
header-y += stat.h
header-y += swab.h
header-y += unistd.h
