.\"
.\" nfsiostat(8)
.\"
.TH nfsiostat 8 "15 Apr 2010"
.SH NAME
nfsiostat \- Emulate iostat for NFS mount points using /proc/self/mountstats
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "nfsiostat [[" <interval> "] [" <count> "]] [" <options> "]["<mount_point> "]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B nfsiostat
command displays NFS client per-mount statisitics. 
.TP 
<interval>
specifies the amount of time in seconds between each report.
The first report contains statistics for the time since each file
system was mounted.  Each subsequent report contains statistics collected
during the interval since the previous report.
.TP
<count>
If the
.I <count>
parameter is
specified, the value of 
.I <count> 
determines the number of reports generated at
.I <interval> 
seconds apart. if the interval parameter is 
specified without the
.I <count> 
parameter, the command generates reports continuously.
.TP
<options>
Define below
.TP
<mount_point>
If one or more
.I <mount point> 
names are specified, statistics for only these mount points will
be displayed.  Otherwise, all NFS mount points on the client are listed.
.TP
The meaning of each column of \fBnfsiostat\fR's output is the following:
.RS 8
- \fBop/s\fR
.RS
This is the number of operations per second.
.RS
.RE
.RE
.RE
.RS 8
- \fBrpc bklog\fR
.RS
This is the length of the backlog queue.
.RE
.RE
.RE
.RS 8
- \fBkB/s\fR
.RS
This is the number of kB written/read per second.
.RE
.RE
.RE
.RS 8
- \fBkB/op\fR
.RS
This is the number of kB written/read per each operation.
.RE
.RE
.RE
.RS 8
- \fBretrans\fR
.RS
This is the number of retransmissions.
.RE
.RE
.RE
.RS 8
- \fBavg RTT (ms)\fR
.RS
This is the duration from the time that client's kernel sends the RPC request until the time it receives the reply.
.RE
.RE
.RE
.RS 8
- \fBavg exe (ms)\fR
.RS
This is the duration from the time that NFS client does the RPC request to its kernel until the RPC request is completed, this includes the RTT time above.
.RE
.RE
.RE
.TP
Note that if an interval is used as argument to \fBnfsiostat\fR, then the diffrence from previous interval will be displayed, otherwise the results will be from the time that the share was mounted.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-a " or " \-\-attr
displays statistics related to the attribute cache
.TP
.B \-d " or " \-\-dir 
displays statistics related to directory operations
.TP
.B \-h " or " \-\-help 
shows help message and exit
.TP
.B \-l LIST or " \-\-list=LIST 
only print stats for first LIST mount points
.TP
.B \-p " or " \-\-page
displays statistics related to the page cache
.TP
.B \-s " or " \-\-sort
Sort NFS mount points by ops/second
.TP
.B \-\-version
show program's version number and exit
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /proc/self/mountstats
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR iostat (8),
.BR mountstats (8),
.BR nfsstat(8)
.SH AUTHOR
Chuck Lever <chuck.lever@oracle.com>
