.TH "usbmuxd" 8
.SH NAME
usbmuxd \- Expose a socket to multiplex connections from and to iOS devices.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B usbmuxd
[OPTIONS]

.SH DESCRIPTION

usbmuxd stands for "USB multiplexing daemon". This daemon is in charge of
multiplexing connections over USB to an iOS device. To users, it means
you can sync your music, contacts, photos, etc. over USB. To developers, it
means you can connect to any listening localhost socket on the device. usbmuxd
is not used for tethering data transfer which uses a dedicated USB interface as
a virtual network device. Multiple connections to different TCP ports can happen
in parallel. The higher-level layers are handled by libimobiledevice.

When usbmuxd is running (normally started, or stopped as a result of "udev"
auto-insertion messages or by systemd) it provides a socket interface in
"/var/run/usbmuxd" that is designed to be compatible with the socket interface
that is provided on Mac OS X.

You should also create a "usbmux" user that has access to USB devices on your
system. Alternatively, you can pass a different username using the -U argument.

Due to iOS 7 the daemon now also manages pairing records with iOS devices and
the host in "/var/lib/lockdown" (Linux) or "/var/db/lockdown" (Mac OS X).
Ensure proper permissions are setup for the daemon to access the directory.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-U, \-\-user USER
Change to this user after startup (needs USB privileges).
.TP
.B \-f, \-\-foreground
Do not daemonize (implies one -v).
.TP
.B \-n, \-\-disable-hotplug
Disables automatic discovery of devices on hotplug. Starting another instance
will trigger discovery instead.
.TP
.B \-z, \-\-enable-exit
Enable "--exit" request from other instances and exit automatically if no
device is attached.
.TP
.B \-u, \-\-udev
Run in udev operation mode (implies -n and -z).
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-systemd
Run in systemd operation mode (implies -z and -f).
.TP
.B \-x, \-\-exit
Notify a running instance to exit if there are no devices connected (sends
SIGUSR1 to running instance) and exit.
.TP
.B \-X, \-\-force-exit
Notify a running instance to exit even if there are still devices connected
(always works) and exit.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
be verbose (use twice or more to increase verbose level).
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
print version information and exit.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
prints usage information.

.SH AUTHOR
The first usbmuxd daemon implementation was authored by Hector Martin.

Now mainly developed by Nikias Bassen, Martin Szulecki and contributors (see AUTHORS file).

.SH SEE ALSO
idevice_id(1), iproxy(1).

.SH ON THE WEB
https://libimobiledevice.org

https://github.com/libimobiledevice/usbmuxd
