

generic-y += bitsperlong.h
generic-y += cputime.h
generic-y += current.h
generic-y += emergency-restart.h
generic-y += errno.h
generic-y += exec.h
generic-y += ioctl.h
generic-y += ipcbuf.h
generic-y += irq_regs.h
generic-y += kdebug.h
generic-y += local.h
generic-y += local64.h
generic-y += mcs_spinlock.h
generic-y += msgbuf.h
generic-y += param.h
generic-y += parport.h
generic-y += poll.h
generic-y += preempt.h
generic-y += resource.h
generic-y += rwsem.h
generic-y += scatterlist.h
generic-y += seccomp.h
generic-y += sections.h
generic-y += segment.h
generic-y += sembuf.h
generic-y += serial.h
generic-y += shmbuf.h
generic-y += siginfo.h
generic-y += simd.h
generic-y += sizes.h
generic-y += socket.h
generic-y += sockios.h
generic-y += termbits.h
generic-y += termios.h
generic-y += timex.h
generic-y += trace_clock.h
