# UAPI Header export list
include include/uapi/asm-generic/Kbuild.asm

header-y += auxvec.h
header-y += byteorder.h
header-y += cachectl.h
header-y += msgbuf.h
header-y += param.h
header-y += posix_types.h
header-y += ptrace.h
header-y += sembuf.h
header-y += setup.h
header-y += shmbuf.h
header-y += sigcontext.h
header-y += signal.h
header-y += socket.h
header-y += sockios.h
header-y += stat.h
header-y += swab.h
header-y += termbits.h
header-y += termios.h
header-y += types.h
header-y += unistd.h
generic-y += bitsperlong.h
generic-y += errno.h
generic-y += fcntl.h
generic-y += ioctl.h
generic-y += ioctls.h
generic-y += ipcbuf.h
generic-y += kvm_para.h
generic-y += mman.h
generic-y += param.h
generic-y += poll.h
generic-y += resource.h
generic-y += siginfo.h
generic-y += statfs.h
