'\" t
.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright 2018-2021,2022 Thomas E. Dickey                                *
.\" Copyright 1998-2010,2015 Free Software Foundation, Inc.                  *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a  *
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the            *
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including      *
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute with modifications, sublicense, and/or sell       *
.\" copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is    *
.\" furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included  *
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name(s) of the above copyright   *
.\" holders shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings in this Software without prior written       *
.\" authorization.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: menu_new.3x,v 1.21 2022/02/12 20:02:20 tom Exp $
.TH menu_new 3X ""
.SH NAME
\fBnew_menu\fP,
\fBfree_menu\fP \- create and destroy menus
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <menu.h>\fP
.sp
\fBMENU *new_menu(ITEM **\fIitems\fB);\fR
.br
\fBint free_menu(MENU *\fImenu\fB);\fR
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
The function \fBnew_menu\fP creates a new menu connected to a specified item
pointer array (which must be \fBNULL\fP-terminated).
.PP
The function \fBfree_menu\fP disconnects \fImenu\fP from its item array
and frees the storage allocated for the menu.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The function \fBnew_menu\fP returns \fBNULL\fP on error.
It sets \fBerrno\fP according to the function's failure:
.TP 5
.B E_NOT_CONNECTED
No items are connected to the menu.
.TP 5
.B E_SYSTEM_ERROR
System error occurred, e.g., malloc failure.
.PP
The function \fBfree_menu\fP returns one of the following:
.TP 5
.B E_OK
The routine succeeded.
.TP 5
.B E_SYSTEM_ERROR
System error occurred (see \fBerrno\fP(3)).
.TP 5
.B E_BAD_ARGUMENT
Routine detected an incorrect or out-of-range argument.
.TP 5
.B E_POSTED
The menu has already been posted.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcurses\fP(3X), \fBmenu\fP(3X).
.SH NOTES
The header file \fB<menu.h>\fP automatically includes the header file
\fB<curses.h>\fP.
.SH PORTABILITY
These routines emulate the System V menu library.
They were not supported on
Version 7 or BSD versions.
.SH AUTHORS
Juergen Pfeifer.
Manual pages and adaptation for new curses by Eric S. Raymond.
