.\" Copyright (c) 2014 Sougata Santra / Tuxera Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2011 Erik Larsson / Tuxera Inc.
.\"
.TH MKFATFS 8 "June 2021" "Tuxera TFATprogs 3023.2.3.12"
.SH NAME
mkfatfs \- create a FAT file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mkfatfs
[\fIoptions\fR] \fIdevice\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mkfatfs
is used to create a FAT file system on a device (usually a disk or flash
partition).
.I device
is the special file corresponding to the device (e.g.
.IR /dev/sdXX, 
.IR /dev/block/mmcblk1p1 ).
.SH OPTIONS
Below is a summary of all the options that
.B mkfatfs
accepts.  Nearly all options have two equivalent names.  The short name is
preceded by
.B \-
and the long name is preceded by
.BR \-\- .
.TP
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-alignment\fR VALUE
Align the file system structures to \fBVALUE\fR bytes.
.br
\fBWARNING:\fR Don't use this in production unless explictly instructed by
Tuxera. The default alignment is usually the appropriate one.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-cluster\-size\fR SIZE
Set the cluster size (in bytes) of the volume to \fBSIZE\fR. The default is to
determine optimal cluster size automatically. The legal values for this field
are powers of 2, such that \fBSIZE\fR does not exceed 32 KiB.
.TP
\fB\--cp\fR CODEPAGE
Use the given code page to encode the volume label. The following code pages
are supported: 437, 737, 775, 850, 852, 855, 857, 860, 861, 862, 863, 864, 865,
866, 869, 874, 932, 936, 949, 950. The default is 437.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR DIRECTORY
Populate file system with the contents of the given directory. Can be used in
the build process to create the target device's file system image.
.TP
\fB\-\-discard\fR
This option sends a 'discard' command, like TRIM, to the device
which will zero all data on it.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-force\fR
Allow formatting a FAT volume for which the physical sector size cannot be
automatically detected (for example an image file).
.TP
\fB\-F\fR, \fB\-\-fat\-type\fR FATBITS
Set the FAT bits for the volume to \fBFATBITS\fR. The legal values for
this field are [12, 16, 32].
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-volume\-id\fR STRING
Sets the volume ID for the volume to \fBSTRING\fR, which must be in the format
XXXX\-XXXX where X is a hexadecimal character (0\-9, A\-F).
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-volume\-label\fR STRING
Set the volume label for the file system. The volume label can be up to 11
bytes long when encoded with code page specified by --cp option.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-rootdir\-entries\fR NUMBER
Set the count of 32 bytes directory entries in the root directory to
\fBNUMBER\fR.
.br
For FAT32 volumes this value is ignored and set to zero. For FAT 12/16 volume
the default value is 512.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-sectors\-per\-cluster\fR VALUE
Set the volume cluster size (in bytes) to \fBVALUE\fR * \fBsector_size\fR.
The default value is calculated dynamically depending on FAT type
(FAT 12/16/32) and the size of the volume. The legal values for this field
are [1, 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, 64, 128], such that \fBVALUE\fR * \fBsector_size\fR
does not exceed 32 KiB.
.TP
\fB\-S\fR, \fB\-\-sector\-size\fR SIZE
Set the volume sector size (in bytes) to \fBSIZE\fR. The default is to
detect sector size automatically. Note: This option should probably never be
used when formatting devices directly as most FAT drivers won't be able to use
a FAT volume where the volume sector size doesn't match the physical sector
size.
.TP
\fB\-\-sda\-relax\fR
Relaxes sanity checks for \fB\-\-sda\-strict\fR and \fB\-\-sda\-whole\fR to
allow formatting devices that don't comply to the size specifications of SD
cards to be formatted according to the SD Association guidelines.

NOTE: This option is only a modifier to \fB\-\-sda\-strict\fR and
\fB\-\-sda\-whole\fR and does not do anything on its own.
.TP
\fB\-\-sda\-strict\fR
Forces the formatted volume to adhere to SD Association recommendations.
.TP
\fB\-\-sda\-whole\fR
Performs a whole device formatting, including partition table, according to the
SD Association recommendations. This option should only be used with whole
devices (e.g. \fI/dev/mmcblk0\fR) and never partitions (e.g.
\fI/dev/mmcblk0p1\fR).
.TP
\fB\-\-secure\-discard\fR
This option sends a 'secure discard' command, e.g. eMMC's secure erase, to the
device which will zero all data on it. The difference from the
\fB\-\-discard\fR option is that this command attempts to securely erase the
data, guaranteeing that all internal copies of the discarded sectors are also
erased. If the underlying hardware does not support this mode of operation, we
fall back on a regular discard. This option is only available on systems where
this is supported.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-tar\-archive\fR TARFILE
Populate the formatted file system with the contents of the specified tar
archive \fBTARFILE\fR.
.br
It is recommended to use the \fBPOSIX\.1\-2001/pax\fR format when creating the
tar archive in order to retain as much metadata as possible from the source
files.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Makes
.B mkfatfs
emit certain status messages related to the formatting process.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug please send an email describing the problem to 
support@tuxera.com.
.SH AUTHORS
.B mkfatfs
was written by
.RS 8
Erik Larsson, Tuxera Inc.
.br
Sougata Santra, Tuxera Inc.
.RE
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B mkfatfs
is part of the
.B Tuxera FATprogs
package.
