 s-Par Proc Entries
This document describes the proc entries created by the Unisys s-Par modules.

Support Module Entries
These entries are provided primarily for debugging.

/proc/uislib/info: This entry contains debugging information for the
uislib module, including bus information and memory usage.

/proc/visorchipset/controlvm: This directory contains debugging
entries for the controlvm channel used by visorchipset.

/proc/uislib/platform: This entry is used to display the platform
number this node is in the system. For some guests, this may be
invalid.

/proc/visorchipset/chipsetready: This entry is written to by scripts
to signify that any user level activity has been completed before the
guest can be considered running and is shown as running in the s-Par
UI.

Device Entries
These entries provide status of the devices shared by a service partition.

/proc/uislib/vbus: this is a directory containing entries for each
virtual bus. Each numbered sub-directory contains an info entry, which
describes the devices that appear on that bus.

/proc/uislib/cycles_before_wait: This entry is used to tune
performance, by setting the number of cycles we wait before going idle
when in polling mode. A longer time will reduce message latency but
spend more processing time polling.

/proc/uislib/smart_wakeup: This entry is used to tune performance, by
enabling or disabling smart wakeup.

/proc/virthba/info: This entry contains debugging information for the
virthba module, including interrupt information and memory usage.

/proc/virthba/enable_ints: This entry controls interrupt use by the
virthba module. Writing a 0 to this entry will disable interrupts.

/proc/virtnic/info: This entry contains debugging information for the
virtnic module, including interrupt information, send and receive
counts, and other device information.

/proc/virtnic/ethX: This is a directory containing entries for each
virtual NIC. Each named subdirectory contains two entries,
clientstring and zone.

/proc/virtpci/info: This entry contains debugging information for the
virtpci module, including virtual PCI bus information and device
locations.

/proc/virtnic/enable_ints: This entry controls interrupt use by the
virtnic module. Writing a 0 to this entry will disable interrupts.

Visorconinclient, visordiag, visornoop, visorserialclient, and
visorvideoclient Entries

The entries in proc for these modules all follow the same
pattern. Each module has its own proc directory with the same name,
e.g. visordiag presents a /proc/visordiag directory. Inside of the
module's directory are a device directory, which contains one numbered
directory for each device provided by that module. Each device has a
diag entry that presents the device number and visorbus name for that
device. The module directory also has a driver/diag entry, which
reports the corresponding s-Par version number of the driver.

Automated Installation Entries

These entries are used to pass information between the s-Par platform
and the Linux-based installation and recovery tool. These values are
read/write, however, the guest can only reset them to 0, or report an
error status through the installer entry. The values are only set via
s-Par's firmware interface, to help prevent accidentally booting into
the tool.

/proc/visorchipset/boottotool: This entry instructs s-Par that the
next reboot will launch the installation and recovery tool. If set to
0, the next boot will happen according to the UEFI boot manager
settings.

/proc/visorchipset/toolaction: This entry indicates the installation
and recovery tool mode requested for the next boot.

/proc/visorchipset/installer: this entry is used by the installation
and recovery tool to pass status and result information back to the
s-Par firmware.

/proc/visorchipset/partition: This directory contains the guest
partition configuration data for each virtual bus, for use during
installation and at runtime for s-Par service partitions.
