.TH RADDEBUG 8 "1 September 2010" "" "FreeRADIUS Daemon"
.SH NAME
raddebug - Display debugging output from a running server.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B raddebug
.RB [ \-c
.IR condition ]
.RB [ \-d
.IR config_directory ]
.RB [ \-i
.IR ipv4-address ]
.RB [ \-I
.IR ipv6-address ]
.RB [ \-f
.IR socket_file ]
.RB [ \-t
.IR timeout ]
.RB [ \-u
.IR user-name ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBraddebug\fP is a shell script wrapper around \fBradmin\fP that
automates the process of obtaining debugging output from a running
server.  It does this without impacting service availability, unlike
using \fBradiusd -X\fP.  There are a number of prerequisites that are
required for its proper operation:
.PP
.in +0.3i
* \fBradmin\fP must be available in the PATH.
.br
* The user running \fBraddebug\fP must have permission to connect to
  the server control socket.
.br
* The control socket must be configured.  For instructions, see
  raddb/sites-available/control-socket
.br
* The control socket must be marked as "mode = rw".
.br
* The user running \fBraddebug\fP must have permission to read and
  write files in the "logdir" directory.  This is usually
  /var/log/radiusd.
.in -0.3i
.PP
For a number of reasons, the debugging output is placed in an
intermediate file, rather than being sent directly to standard output.
In order to prevent this file from growing too large, the
\fBraddebug\fP program is automatically terminated after 10 seconds.
This timeout can be changed via the "-t" parameter.
.PP
When the script exits, debug mode in the server is disabled, and the
intermediate file is deleted.
.PP
Debug output from a live server can be redirected to only one
location.  If a second instance of \fIraddebug\fP is started while the
first one is still running, the later one will over-ride the first
one, and the first will stop producing output.
.SH OPTIONS

.IP \-c\ \fIcondition\fP
Set a specific debug condition.  The format of the condition is as
specified in the CONDITIONS section of the \fIunlang\fP manual page.
.IP \-f\ \fIsocket_file\fP
The path to the control socket.  See the \fIradmin\fP manual page for
more description of this option.
.IP \-i\ \fIipv4-address\fP
Show debug output for the client having the given IPv4 address.  This
option is equivalent to using:
.br
.in +0.3i
-c '(Packet-Src-IP-Address == ipv4-address)'
.in -0.3i
.IP "\-d \fIconfig directory\fP"
The radius configuration directory, usually /etc/raddb.  See the
\fIradmin\fP manual page for more description of this option.
.IP \-I\ \fIipv6-address\fP
Show debug output for the client having the given IPv6 address.  This
option is equivalent to using:
.br
.in +0.3i
-c '(Packet-Src-IPv6-Address == ipv6-address)'
.in -0.3i
.IP \-t\ \fItimeout\fP
Stop printing debug output after "timeout" seconds.  The default
timeout is sixty (60) seconds.  Use "-t 0" to print debugging output forever,
or until the script exits.
.IP \-u\ \fIname\fP
Show debug output for users having the given name.  This
option is equivalent to using:
.br
.in +0.3i
-c '(User-Name == name)'
.in -0.3i

.SH SEE ALSO
radmin(8),  raddb/sites-available/control-socket, unlang(5), radiusd.conf(5)
.SH AUTHORS
Alan DeKok <aland@freeradius.org>
