.\"     # DS - begin display
.de DS
.RS
.nf
.sp
..
.\"     # DE - end display
.de DE
.fi
.RE
.sp
..
.TH RADSQLRELAY 8 "19 June 2005" "" "FreeRADIUS helper program"

.SH NAME
radsqlrelay - relay SQL queries to a central database server

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B radsqlrelay
.RB [ \-? ]
.RB [ \-d
.IR sql_driver ]
.RB [ \-b
.IR database ]
.RB [ \-f
.IR file ]
.RB [ \-h
.IR host ]
.RB [ \-u
.IR user ]
.RB [ \-P
.IR port ]
.RB [ \-p
.IR password ]
.RB [ \-1 ]
.RB [ \-x ]
\fIfile_path\fP

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBradsqlrelay\fP tails a SQL \fIlogfile\fP and forwards the queries
to a database server. Used to replicate accounting records to one
(central) database, even if the database has extended downtime.
.PP
The SQL logfile is created by the \fBrlm_sql_log\fP module. The module
must be configured in the \fBradiusd\fP server before you can use
\fBradsqlrelay\fP.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\-?"
Print usage help information.
.IP "\-d \fIsql_driver\fP"
Driver to use: mysql, pg, oracle.
.IP "\-b \fIdatabase\fP"
Name of the database to use.
.IP "\-f \fIfile\fP"
Read password from file, instead of command line.
.IP "\-h \fIhost\fP"
Connect to host.
.IP "\-u \fIuser\fP"
User for login.
.IP "\-P \fIport\fP"
Port number to use for connection.
.IP "\-p \fIpassword\fP"
Password to use when connecting to server.
.IP "\-1"
One-shot mode: push the file to database and exit.
.IP "\-x"
Turn on debugging.
.IP "file_path"
The pathname of the SQL logfile to use.

.SH NOTES
.SS Oracle driver
The command "radsqlrelay -d oracle -b db.domain.tld sql-relay" reads the
database description stored in $TNS_ADMIN/tnsnames.ora:
.PP
.DS
db.domain.tld =
  (DESCRIPTION =
    (ADDRESS_LIST =
      (ADDRESS = (PROTOCOL = TCP)(HOST = db.domain.tld)(PORT = 1521))
    )
    (CONNECT_DATA =
      (SERVICE_NAME = <DB SID>)
    )
  )
.DE

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rlm_sql_log (5)

.SH AUTHOR
Nicolas Baradakis <nicolas.baradakis@cegetel.net>
