.TH DCB-MAXRATE 8 "22 November 2020" "iproute2" "Linux"
.SH NAME
dcb-maxrate \- show / manipulate port maxrate settings of
the DCB (Data Center Bridging) subsystem
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.ad l
.in +8

.ti -8
.B dcb
.RI "[ " OPTIONS " ] "
.B maxrate
.RI "{ " COMMAND " | " help " }"
.sp

.ti -8
.B dcb maxrate show dev
.RI DEV
.RB "[ " tc-maxrate " ]"

.ti -8
.B dcb maxrate set dev
.RI DEV
.RB "[ " tc-maxrate " " \fIRATE-MAP " ]"

.ti -8
.IR RATE-MAP " := [ " RATE-MAP " ] " RATE-MAPPING

.ti -8
.IR RATE-MAPPING " := { " TC " | " \fBall " }" \fB:\fIRATE\fR

.ti -8
.IR TC " := { " \fB0\fR " .. " \fB7\fR " }"

.ti -8
.IR RATE " := { " INTEGER "[" \fBbit\fR "] | " INTEGER\fBKbit\fR " | "
.IR INTEGER\fBMib\fR " | " ... " }"

.SH DESCRIPTION

.B dcb maxrate
is used to configure and inspect maximum rate at which traffic is allowed to
egress from a given traffic class.

.SH PARAMETERS

The following describes only the write direction, i.e. as used with the
\fBset\fR command. For the \fBshow\fR command, the parameter name is to be used
as a simple keyword without further arguments. This instructs the tool to show
the value of a given parameter. When no parameters are given, the tool shows the
complete maxrate configuration.

.TP
.B tc-maxrate \fIRATE-MAP
\fIRATE-MAP\fR uses the array parameter syntax, see
.BR dcb (8)
for details. Keys are TC indices, values are traffic rates in bits per second.
The rates can use the notation documented in section PARAMETERS at
.BR tc (8).
Note that under that notation, "bit" stands for bits per second whereas "b"
stands for bytes per second. When showing, the command line option
.B -i
toggles between using decadic and ISO/IEC prefixes.

.SH EXAMPLE & USAGE

Set rates of all traffic classes to 25Gbps, except for TC 6, which will
have the rate of 100Gbps:

.P
# dcb maxrate set dev eth0 tc-maxrate all:25Gbit 6:100Gbit

Show what was set:

.P
# dcb maxrate show dev eth0
.br
tc-maxrate 0:25Gbit 1:25Gbit 2:25Gbit 3:25Gbit 4:25Gbit 5:25Gbit 6:100Gbit 7:25Gbit

.SH EXIT STATUS
Exit status is 0 if command was successful or a positive integer upon failure.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dcb (8)

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report any bugs to the Network Developers mailing list
.B <netdev@vger.kernel.org>
where the development and maintenance is primarily done.
You do not have to be subscribed to the list to send a message there.

.SH AUTHOR
Petr Machata <me@pmachata.org>
