.TH DEVLINK 8 "14 Mar 2016" "iproute2" "Linux"
.SH NAME
devlink \- Devlink tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.ad l
.in +8
.ti -8
.B devlink
.RI "[ " OPTIONS " ] { " dev | port | monitor | sb | resource | region | health | trap " } { " COMMAND " | "
.BR help " }"
.sp

.ti -8
.B devlink
.RB "[ " -force " ] "
.BI "-batch " filename
.sp

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.BR "\-V" , " --Version"
Print the version of the
.B devlink
utility and exit.

.TP
.BR "\-b", " \-batch " <FILENAME>
Read commands from provided file or standard input and invoke them.
First failure will cause termination of devlink.

.TP
.B \-force
Don't terminate devlink on errors in batch mode.
If there were any errors during execution of the commands, the application return code will be non zero.

.TP
.BR "\-n" , " --no-nice-names"
Turn off printing out nice names, for example netdevice ifnames instead of devlink port identification.

.TP
.BR "\-j" , " --json"
Generate JSON output.

.TP
.BR "\-p" , " --pretty"
When combined with -j generate a pretty JSON output.

.TP
.BR "\-v" , " --verbose"
Turn on verbose output.

.TP
.BR "\-s" , " --statistics"
Output statistics.

.TP
.BR "\-N", " \-Netns " <NETNSNAME>
Switches to the specified network namespace.

.SS
.I OBJECT

.TP
.B dev
- devlink device.

.TP
.B port
- devlink port.

.TP
.B monitor
- watch for netlink messages.

.TP
.B sb
- devlink shared buffer configuration.

.TP
.B resource
- devlink device resource configuration.

.TP
.B region
- devlink address region access

.TP
.B health
- devlink reporting and recovery

.TP
.B trap
- devlink trap configuration

.SS
.I COMMAND

Specifies the action to perform on the object.
The set of possible actions depends on the object type.
As a rule, it is possible to
.B show
(or
.B list
) objects, but some objects do not allow all of these operations
or have some additional commands. The
.B help
command is available for all objects. It prints
out a list of available commands and argument syntax conventions.
.sp
If no command is given, some default command is assumed.
Usually it is
.B list
or, if the objects of this class cannot be listed,
.BR "help" .

.SH EXIT STATUS
Exit status is 0 if command was successful or a positive integer upon failure.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR devlink-dev (8),
.BR devlink-port (8),
.BR devlink-monitor (8),
.BR devlink-sb (8),
.BR devlink-resource (8),
.BR devlink-region (8),
.BR devlink-health (8),
.BR devlink-trap (8),
.br

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report any bugs to the Network Developers mailing list
.B <netdev@vger.kernel.org>
where the development and maintenance is primarily done.
You do not have to be subscribed to the list to send a message there.

.SH AUTHOR
Jiri Pirko <jiri@mellanox.com>
