.TH DEVLINK\-REGION 8 "10 Jan 2018" "iproute2" "Linux"
.SH NAME
devlink-region \- devlink address region access
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.ad l
.in +8
.ti -8
.B devlink
.RI "[ " OPTIONS " ]"
.B region
.RI  " { " COMMAND " | "
.BR help " }"
.sp

.ti -8
.IR OPTIONS " := { "
\fB\-V\fR[\fIersion\fR] |
\fB\-n\fR[\fIno-nice-names\fR] }

.ti -8
.BR "devlink region show"
.RI "[ " DEV/REGION " ]"

.ti -8
.BR "devlink region del"
.RI "" DEV/REGION ""
.BR "snapshot"
.RI "" SNAPSHOT_ID ""

.ti -8
.BR "devlink region dump"
.RI "" DEV/REGION ""
.BR "snapshot"
.RI "" SNAPSHOT_ID ""

.ti -8
.BR "devlink region read"
.RI "" DEV/REGION ""
.BR "[ "
.BR "snapshot"
.RI "" SNAPSHOT_ID ""
.BR "]"
.BR "address"
.RI "" ADDRESS "
.BR "length"
.RI "" LENGTH ""

.ti -8
.B devlink region help

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.SS devlink region show - Show all supported address regions names, snapshots and sizes

.PP
.I "DEV/REGION"
- specifies the devlink device and address-region to query.

.SS devlink region del - Delete a snapshot specified by address-region name and snapshot ID

.PP
.I "DEV/REGION"
- specifies the devlink device and address-region to delete the snapshot from

.PP
snapshot
.I "SNAPSHOT_ID"
- specifies the snapshot ID to delete

.SS devlink region dump - Dump all the available data from a region or from snapshot of a region

.PP
.I "DEV/REGION"
- specifies the device and address-region to dump from.

.PP
snapshot
.I "SNAPSHOT_ID"
- specifies the snapshot-id of the region to dump.

.SS devlink region read - Read from a specific region address for a given length

.PP
.I "DEV/REGION"
- specifies the device and address-region to read from.

.PP
snapshot
.I "SNAPSHOT_ID"
- specifies the snapshot-id of the region to read.

.PP
address
.I "ADDRESS"
- specifies the address to read from.

.PP
length
.I "LENGTH"
- specifies the length of data to read.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
devlink region show
.RS 4
List available address regions and snapshot.
.RE
.PP
devlink region del pci/0000:00:05.0/cr-space snapshot 1
.RS 4
Delete snapshot id 1 from cr-space address region from device pci/0000:00:05.0.
.RE
.PP
devlink region dump pci/0000:00:05.0/cr-space snapshot 1
.RS 4
Dump the snapshot taken from cr-space address region with ID 1
.RE
.PP
devlink region read pci/0000:00:05.0/cr-space snapshot 1 address 0x10 legth 16
.RS 4
Read from address 0x10, 16 Bytes of snapshot ID 1 taken from cr-space address region
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR devlink (8),
.BR devlink-dev (8),
.BR devlink-port (8),
.BR devlink-monitor (8),
.br

.SH AUTHOR
Alex Vesker <valex@mellanox.com>
