.TH DEVLINK\-TRAP 8 "2 August 2019" "iproute2" "Linux"
.SH NAME
devlink-trap \- devlink trap configuration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.ad l
.in +8
.ti -8
.B devlink
.RI "[ " OPTIONS " ]"
.B trap
.RI "{ " COMMAND " |"
.BR help " }"
.sp

.ti -8
.IR OPTIONS " := { "
\fB\-v\fR[\fIerbose\fR] |
\fB\-s\fR[\fItatistics\fR] }

.ti -8
.B "devlink trap show"
.RI "[ " DEV
.B trap
.IR TRAP " ]"

.ti -8
.BI "devlink trap set " DEV " trap " TRAP
.RB "[ " action " { " trap " | " drop " | " mirror " } ]"

.ti -8
.B "devlink trap group show"
.RI "[ " DEV
.B group
.IR GROUP " ]"

.ti -8
.BI "devlink trap group set " DEV " group " GROUP
.RB "[ " action " { " trap " | " drop " | " mirror " } ]"
.br
.RB "[ " policer
.IB "POLICER " ]
.RB "[ " nopolicer " ]"

.ti -8
.BI "devlink trap policer set " DEV " policer " POLICER
.RB "[ " rate
.IR "RATE " ]
.RB "[ " burst
.IR "BURST " ]

.ti -8
.B devlink trap help

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.SS devlink trap show - display available packet traps and their attributes

.PP
.I "DEV"
- specifies the devlink device from which to show packet traps.
If this argument is omitted all packet traps of all devices are listed.

.PP
.BI "trap " TRAP
- specifies the packet trap.
Only applicable if a devlink device is also specified.

.SS devlink trap set - set attributes of a packet trap

.PP
.I "DEV"
- specifies the devlink device the packet trap belongs to.

.PP
.BI "trap " TRAP
- specifies the packet trap.

.TP
.BR action " { " trap " | " drop " | " mirror " } "
packet trap action.

.I trap
- the sole copy of the packet is sent to the CPU.

.I drop
- the packet is dropped by the underlying device and a copy is not sent to the CPU.

.I mirror
- the packet is forwarded by the underlying device and a copy is sent to the CPU.

.SS devlink trap group show - display available packet trap groups and their attributes

.PP
.I "DEV"
- specifies the devlink device from which to show packet trap groups.
If this argument is omitted all packet trap groups of all devices are listed.

.PP
.BI "group " GROUP
- specifies the packet trap group.
Only applicable if a devlink device is also specified.

.SS devlink trap group set - set attributes of a packet trap group

.PP
.I "DEV"
- specifies the devlink device the packet trap group belongs to.

.PP
.BI "group " GROUP
- specifies the packet trap group.

.TP
.BR action " { " trap " | " drop " | " mirror " } "
packet trap action. The action is set for all the packet traps member in the
trap group. The actions of non-drop traps cannot be changed and are thus
skipped.

.TP
.BI policer " POLICER"
packet trap policer. The policer to bind to the packet trap group. A value of
"0" will unbind the currently bound policer.

.TP
.B nopolicer
Unbind packet trap policer from the packet trap group.

.SS devlink trap policer set - set attributes of packet trap policer

.PP
.I "DEV"
- specifies the devlink device the packet trap policer belongs to.

.PP
.BI "policer " POLICER
- specifies the packet trap policer.

.PP
.BI rate " RATE "
- packet trap policer rate in packets per second.

.PP
.BI burst " BURST "
- packet trap policer burst size in packets.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
devlink trap show
.RS 4
List available packet traps.
.RE
.PP
devlink trap group show
.RS 4
List available packet trap groups.
.RE
.PP
devlink -vs trap show pci/0000:01:00.0 trap source_mac_is_multicast
.RS 4
Show attributes and statistics of a specific packet trap.
.RE
.PP
devlink -s trap group show pci/0000:01:00.0 group l2_drops
.RS 4
Show attributes and statistics of a specific packet trap group.
.RE
.PP
devlink trap set pci/0000:01:00.0 trap source_mac_is_multicast action trap
.RS 4
Set the action of a specific packet trap to 'trap'.
.RE
.PP
devlink trap policer show
.RS 4
List available packet trap policers.
.RE
.PP
devlink -s trap policer show pci/0000:01:00.0 policer 1
.RS 4
Show attributes and statistics of a specific packet trap policer.
.RE
.PP
devlink trap policer set pci/0000:01:00.0 policer 1 rate 1000 burst 128
.RS 4
Set the rate and burst size of a specific packet trap policer.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR devlink (8),
.BR devlink-dev (8),
.BR devlink-monitor (8),
.br

.SH AUTHOR
Ido Schimmel <idosch@mellanox.com>
