.TH IFSTAT 8 "28 Oct 2015" "iproute2" "Linux"
.SH NAME
ifstat \- handy utility to read network interface statistics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.in +8
.ti -8
.BR ifstat " [ "
.IR OPTIONS " ] [ " INTERFACE_LIST " ]"

.ti -8
.IR INTERFACE_LIST " := " INTERFACE_LIST " | " interface
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBifstat\fP neatly prints out network interface statistics.
The utility keeps records of the previous data displayed in history files and
by default only shows difference between the last and the current call.
Location of the history files defaults to /tmp/.ifstat.u$UID but may be
overridden with the IFSTAT_HISTORY environment variable. Similarly, the default
location for xstat (extended stats) is /tmp/.<xstat name>_ifstat.u$UID.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Show version of program.
.TP
.B \-a, \-\-ignore
Ignore the history file.
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-scan=SECS
Sample statistics every SECS second.
.TP
.B \-e, \-\-errors
Show errors.
.TP
.B \-n, \-\-nooutput
Don't display any output.  Update the history file only.
.TP
.B \-r, \-\-reset
Reset history.
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-noupdate
Don't update the history file.
.TP
.B \-t, \-\-interval=SECS
Report average over the last SECS seconds.
.TP
.B \-z, \-\-zeros
Show entries with zero activity.
.TP
.B \-j, \-\-json
Display results in JSON format
.TP
.B \-p, \-\-pretty
If combined with
.BR \-\-json ,
pretty print the output.
.TP
.B \-x, \-\-extended=TYPE
Show extended stats of TYPE. Supported types are:

.in +8
.B cpu_hits
- Counts only packets that went via the CPU.
.in -8

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B IFSTAT_HISTORY
If set, it's value is interpreted as alternate history file path.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ip (8)
.br
.SH AUTHOR
ifstat was written by Alexey Kuznetsov <kuznet@ms2.inr.ac.ru>.
.PP
This manual page was written by Petr Sabata <contyk@redhat.com>.
