.TH RDMA\-RESOURCE 8 "26 Dec 2017" "iproute2" "Linux"
.SH NAME
rdma-resource \- rdma resource configuration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.ad l
.in +8
.ti -8
.B rdma
.RI "[ " OPTIONS " ] " RESOURCE " { " COMMAND " | "
.BR help " }"
.sp

.ti -8
.IR RESOURCE " := { "
.BR cm_id " | " cq " | " mr " | " pd " | " qp " }"
.sp

.ti -8
.IR OPTIONS " := { "
\fB\-j\fR[\fIson\fR] |
\fB\-d\fR[\fIetails\fR] }

.ti -8
.B rdma resource show
.RI "[ " DEV/PORT_INDEX " ]"

.ti -8
.B rdma resource help

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.SS rdma resource show - display rdma resource tracking information

.PP
.I "DEV/PORT_INDEX"
- specifies the RDMA link to show.
If this argument is omitted all links are listed.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
rdma resource show
.RS 4
Shows summary for all devices on the system.
.RE
.PP
rdma resource show mlx5_2
.RS 4
Shows the state of specified rdma device.
.RE
.PP
rdma res show qp link mlx5_4
.RS 4
Get all QPs for the specific device.
.RE
.PP
rdma res show qp link mlx5_4/1
.RS 4
Get QPs of specific port.
.RE
.PP
rdma res show qp link mlx5_4/0
.RS 4
Provide illegal port number (0 is illegal).
.RE
.PP
rdma res show qp link mlx5_4/-
.RS 4
Get QPs which have not assigned port yet.
.RE
.PP
rdma res show qp link mlx5_4/- -d
.RS 4
Detailed view.
.RE
.PP
rdma res show qp link mlx5_4/- -dd
.RS 4
Detailed view including driver-specific details.
.RE
.PP
rdma res show qp link mlx5_4/1 lqpn 0-6
.RS 4
Limit to specific Local QPNs.
.RE
.PP
rdma res show qp link mlx5_4/1 lqpn 6 -r
.RS 4
Driver specific details in raw format.
.RE
.PP
rdma resource show cm_id dst-port 7174
.RS 4
Show CM_IDs with destination ip port of 7174.
.RE
.PP
rdma resource show cm_id src-addr 172.16.0.100
.RS 4
Show CM_IDs bound to local ip address 172.16.0.100
.RE
.PP
rdma resource show cq pid 30489
.RS 4
Show CQs belonging to pid 30489
.RE
.PP

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rdma (8),
.BR rdma-dev (8),
.BR rdma-link (8),
.BR rdma-statistic (8),
.br

.SH AUTHOR
Leon Romanovsky <leonro@mellanox.com>
