.TH RDMA\-STATISTIC 8 "27 June 2019" "iproute2" "Linux"
.SH NAME
rdma-statistic \- RDMA statistic counter configuration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.ad l
.in +8
.ti -8
.B rdma
.RI "[ " OPTIONS " ]"
.B statistic
.RI  "{ " COMMAND " | "
.BR help " }"
.sp

.ti -8
.B rdma statistic
.RI "{ " OBJECT " }"
.B show

.ti -8
.B rdma statistic
.RI "[ " OBJECT " ]"
.B show link
.RI "[ " DEV/PORT_INDX " ]"
.RI "[ " FILTER_NAME " " FILTER_VALUE " ]"

.ti -8
.B rdma statistic
.IR OBJECT
.B mode

.ti -8
.B rdma statistic
.IR OBJECT
.B set
.IR COUNTER_SCOPE
.RI "[ " DEV/PORT_INDEX " ]"
.B auto
.RI "{ " CRITERIA " | "
.BR off " }"

.ti -8
.B rdma statistic
.IR OBJECT
.B bind
.IR COUNTER_SCOPE
.RI "[ " DEV/PORT_INDEX " ]"
.RI "[ " OBJECT-ID " ]"
.RI "[ " COUNTER-ID " ]"

.ti -8
.B rdma statistic
.IR OBJECT
.B unbind
.IR COUNTER_SCOPE
.RI "[ " DEV/PORT_INDEX " ]"
.RI "[ " COUNTER-ID " ]"
.RI "[ " OBJECT-ID " ]"

.ti -8
.IR COUNTER_SCOPE " := "
.RB "{ " link " | " dev " }"

.ti -8
.IR OBJECT " := "
.RB "{ " qp " | " mr " }"

.ti -8
.IR CRITERIA " := "
.RB "{ " type " | " pid " }"

.ti -8
.IR FILTER_NAME " := "
.RB "{ " cntn " | " lqpn " | " pid " | " qp-type " }"

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.SS rdma statistic [object] show - Queries the specified RDMA device for RDMA and driver-specific statistics. Show the default hw counters if object is not specified

.PP
.I "DEV"
- specifies counters on this RDMA device to show.

.I "PORT_INDEX"
- specifies counters on this RDMA port to show.

.I "FILTER_NAME
- specifies a filter to show only the results matching it.

.SS rdma statistic <object> set - configure counter statistic auto-mode for a specific device/port
In auto mode all objects belong to one category are bind automatically to a single counter set. The "off" is global for all auto modes together. Not applicable for MR's.

.SS rdma statistic <object> bind - manually bind an object (e.g., a qp) with a counter
When bound the statistics of this object are available in this counter. Not applicable for MR's.

.SS rdma statistic <object> unbind - manually unbind an object (e.g., a qp) from the counter previously bound
When unbound the statistics of this object are no longer available in this counter; And if object id is not specified then all objects on this counter will be unbound. Not applicable for MR's.

.I "COUNTER-ID"
- specifies the id of the counter to be bound.
If this argument is omitted then a new counter will be allocated.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
rdma statistic show
.RS 4
Shows the state of the default counter of all RDMA devices on the system.
.RE
.PP
rdma statistic show link mlx5_2/1
.RS 4
Shows the state of the default counter of specified RDMA port
.RE
.PP
rdma statistic qp show
.RS 4
Shows the state of all qp counters of all RDMA devices on the system.
.RE
.PP
rdma statistic qp show link mlx5_2/1
.RS 4
Shows the state of all qp counters of specified RDMA port.
.RE
.PP
rdma statistic qp show link mlx5_2 pid 30489
.RS 4
Shows the state of all qp counters of specified RDMA port and belonging to pid 30489
.RE
.PP
rdma statistic qp show link mlx5_2 qp-type UD
.RS 4
Shows the state of all qp counters of specified RDMA port and with QP type UD
.RE
.PP
rdma statistic qp mode
.RS 4
List current counter mode on all devices
.RE
.PP
rdma statistic qp mode link mlx5_2/1
.RS 4
List current counter mode of device mlx5_2 port 1
.RE
.PP
rdma statistic qp set link mlx5_2/1 auto type on
.RS 4
On device mlx5_2 port 1, for each new user QP bind it with a counter automatically. Per counter for QPs with same qp type.
.RE
.PP
rdma statistic qp set link mlx5_2/1 auto pid on
.RS 4
On device mlx5_2 port 1, for each new user QP bind it with a counter automatically. Per counter for QPs with same pid.
.RE
.PP
rdma statistic qp set link mlx5_2/1 auto pid,type on
.RS 4
On device mlx5_2 port 1, for each new user QP bind it with a counter automatically. Per counter for QPs with same pid and same type.
.RE
.PP
rdma statistic qp set link mlx5_2/1 auto off
.RS 4
Turn-off auto mode on device mlx5_2 port 1. The allocated counters can be manually accessed.
.RE
.PP
rdma statistic qp bind link mlx5_2/1 lqpn 178
.RS 4
On device mlx5_2 port 1, allocate a counter and bind the specified qp on it
.RE
.PP
rdma statistic qp unbind link mlx5_2/1 cntn 4 lqpn 178
.RS 4
On device mlx5_2 port 1, bind the specified qp on the specified counter
.RE
.PP
rdma statistic qp unbind link mlx5_2/1 cntn 4
.RS 4
On device mlx5_2 port 1, unbind all QPs on the specified counter. After that this counter will be released automatically by the kernel.
.RE
.PP
rdma statistic show mr
.RS 4
List all currently allocated MR's and their counters.
.RE
.PP
rdma statistic show mr mrn 6
.RS 4
Dump a specific MR statistics with mrn 6. Dumps nothing if does not exists.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rdma (8),
.BR rdma-dev (8),
.BR rdma-link (8),
.BR rdma-resource (8),
.br

.SH AUTHORS
Mark Zhang <markz@mellanox.com>
.br
Erez Alfasi <ereza@mellanox.com>
