.TH "SKB editing action in tc" 8 "12 Jan 2015" "iproute2" "Linux"

.SH NAME
skbedit - SKB editing action
.SH SYNOPSIS
.in +8
.ti -8
.BR tc " ... " "action skbedit " [ " queue_mapping
.IR QUEUE_MAPPING " ] ["
.B priority
.IR PRIORITY " ] ["
.BI mark " MARK\fR[\fB/\fIMASK] ] ["
.B ptype
.IR PTYPE " ] ["
.BR inheritdsfield " ]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B skbedit
action allows to change a packet's associated meta data. It complements the
.B pedit
action, which in turn allows to change parts of the packet data itself.

The most unique feature of
.B skbedit
is its ability to decide over which queue of an interface with multiple
transmit queues the packet is to be sent out. The number of available transmit
queues is reflected by sysfs entries within
.I /sys/class/net/<interface>/queues
with name
.I tx-N
(where
.I N
is the actual queue number).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI queue_mapping " QUEUE_MAPPING"
Override the packet's transmit queue. Useful when applied to packets transmitted
over MQ-capable network interfaces.
.I QUEUE_MAPPING
is an unsigned 16bit value in decimal format.
.TP
.BI priority " PRIORITY"
Override the packet classification decision.
.I PRIORITY
is either
.BR root ", " none
or a hexadecimal major class ID optionally followed by a colon
.RB ( : )
and a hexadecimal minor class ID.
.TP
.BI mark " MARK\fR[\fB/\fIMASK]"
Change the packet's firewall mark value.
.I MARK
is an unsigned 32bit value in automatically detected format (i.e., prefix with
.RB ' 0x '
for hexadecimal interpretation, etc.).
.I MASK
defines the 32-bit mask selecting bits of mark value. Default is 0xffffffff.
.TP
.BI ptype " PTYPE"
Override the packet's type. Useful for setting packet type to host when
needing to allow ingressing packets with the wrong MAC address but
correct IP address.
.I PTYPE
is one of: host, otherhost, broadcast, multicast
.TP
.BI inheritdsfield
Override the packet classification decision, and any value specified with
.BR priority ", "
using the information stored in the Differentiated Services Field of the
IPv6/IPv4 header (RFC2474).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tc (8),
.BR tc-pedit (8)
