.TH TIPC-SOCKET 8 "02 Jun 2015" "iproute2" "Linux"

.\" For consistency, please keep padding right aligned.
.\" For example '.B "foo " bar' and not '.B foo " bar"'

.SH NAME
tipc-socket \- show TIPC socket (port) information

.SH SYNOPSIS
.ad l
.in +8

.ti -8
.B tipc socket list

.SH OPTIONS
Options (flags) that can be passed anywhere in the command chain.
.TP
.BR "\-h" , " --help"
Show help about last valid command. For example
.B tipc socket --help
will show socket help and
.B tipc --help
will show general help. The position of the option in the string is irrelevant.

.SH DESCRIPTION
A TIPC socket is represented by an unsigned integer.

.TP
.SS Bound state
A bound socket has a logical TIPC port name associated with it.

.TP
.SS Connected state
A connected socket is directly connected to another socket creating a point
to point connection between TIPC sockets. If the connection to X was made using
a logical port name Y that name will show up as
.BR "connected to " "X " "via " Y
.

.SH EXIT STATUS
Exit status is 0 if command was successful or a positive integer upon failure.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tipc (8),
.BR tipc-bearer (8)
.BR tipc-link (8),
.BR tipc-media (8),
.BR tipc-nametable (8),
.BR tipc-node (8),
.br
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report any bugs to the Network Developers mailing list
.B <netdev@vger.kernel.org>
where the development and maintenance is primarily done.
You do not have to be subscribed to the list to send a message there.

.SH AUTHOR
Richard Alpe <richard.alpe@ericsson.com>
