.TH TIPC-NODE 8 "02 Jun 2015" "iproute2" "Linux"

.\" For consistency, please keep padding right aligned.
.\" For example '.B "foo " bar' and not '.B foo " bar"'

.SH NAME
tipc-node \- modify and show local node parameters or list peer nodes

.SH SYNOPSIS
.ad l
.in +8

.ti -8
.B tipc node set
.RB "{ " "address "
.IR ADDRESS
.RB "| " netid
.IR NETID
.RB "} "

.ti -8
.B tipc node get
.RB "{ " "address" " | " netid " } "

.ti -8
.B tipc node list
.br

.SH OPTIONS
Options (flags) that can be passed anywhere in the command chain.
.TP
.BR "\-h" , " --help"
Show help about last valid command. For example
.B tipc node --help
will show node help and
.B tipc --help
will show general help. The position of the option in the string is irrelevant.
.SH DESCRIPTION

.SS Node parameters
.TP
.BI address
.br
The TIPC logical address. On the form x.y.z where x, y and z are unsigned
integers.

.TP
.BI netid
.br
Network identity. Can by used to create individual TIPC clusters on the same
media.

.SH EXIT STATUS
Exit status is 0 if command was successful or a positive integer upon failure.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tipc (8),
.BR tipc-bearer (8),
.BR tipc-link (8),
.BR tipc-media (8),
.BR tipc-nametable (8),
.BR tipc-peer (8),
.BR tipc-socket (8)
.br
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report any bugs to the Network Developers mailing list
.B <netdev@vger.kernel.org>
where the development and maintenance is primarily done.
You do not have to be subscribed to the list to send a message there.

.SH AUTHOR
Richard Alpe <richard.alpe@ericsson.com>
