.TH TIPC-MEDIA 8 "02 Jun 2015" "iproute2" "Linux"

.\" For consistency, please keep padding right aligned.
.\" For example '.B "foo " bar' and not '.B foo " bar"'

.SH NAME
tipc-media \- list or modify media properties

.SH SYNOPSIS
.ad l
.in +8

.ti -8

.ti -8
.B tipc media set
.RB "{ " "priority "
.IR PRIORITY
.RB "| " tolerance
.IR TOLERANCE
.RB "| " window
.IR "WINDOW " }
.BI "media " MEDIA

.ti -8
.B tipc media get
.RB "{ " "priority" " | " tolerance " | " window " } " media
.I MEDIA

.ti -8
.B tipc media list
.br

.SH OPTIONS
Options (flags) that can be passed anywhere in the command chain.
.TP
.BR "\-h" , " --help"
Show help about last valid command. For example
.B tipc media --help
will show media help and
.B tipc --help
will show general help. The position of the option in the string is irrelevant.
.SH DESCRIPTION

.SS Media properties

.TP
.B priority
.br
Default link priority inherited by all bearers subsequently enabled on a
media. For more info about link priority see
.BR tipc-link (8)

.TP
.B tolerance
.br
Default link tolerance inherited by all bearers subsequently enabled on a
media. For more info about link tolerance see
.BR tipc-link (8)

.TP
.B window
.br
Default link window inherited by all bearers subsequently enabled on a
media. For more info about link window see
.BR tipc-link (8)

.SH EXIT STATUS
Exit status is 0 if command was successful or a positive integer upon failure.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tipc (8),
.BR tipc-bearer (8),
.BR tipc-link (8),
.BR tipc-nametable (8),
.BR tipc-node (8),
.BR tipc-peer (8),
.BR tipc-socket (8)
.br
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report any bugs to the Network Developers mailing list
.B <netdev@vger.kernel.org>
where the development and maintenance is primarily done.
You do not have to be subscribed to the list to send a message there.

.SH AUTHOR
Richard Alpe <richard.alpe@ericsson.com>
