.TH dbclient 1 2023-02-01
.SH NAME
dbclient \- lightweight SSH client
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dbclient
[\fIflag arguments\fR] [\-p
.I port\fR] [\-i
.I id\fR] [\-L
.I l\fR:\fIh\fR:\fIp\fR] [\-R
.I l\fR:\fIh\fR:\fIp\fR] [\-l
.IR user ]
.I host
.RI [ \fImore\ flags\fR ]
.RI [ command ]

.B dbclient
[\fIargs\fR]
[\fIuser1\fR]@\fIhost1\fR[^\fIport1\fR],[\fIuser2\fR]@\fIhost2\fR[^\fIport2\fR],...

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dbclient
is the client part of Dropbear SSH
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B command
A command to run on the remote host. This will normally be run by the remote host
using the user's shell. The command begins at the first hyphen argument after the 
host argument. If no command is specified an interactive terminal will be opened
(see -t and -T).
.TP
.B \-p \fIport
Connect to 
.I port
on the remote host. Alternatively a port can be specified as hostname^port.
Default is 22.
.TP
.B \-i \fIidfile
Identity file.
Read the identity key from file
.I idfile
(multiple allowed). This file is created with dropbearkey(1) or converted
from OpenSSH with dropbearconvert(1). The default path ~/.ssh/id_dropbear is used
.TP
.B \-L\fR [\fIlistenaddress\fR]:\fIlistenport\fR:\fIhost\fR:\fIport\fR
Local port forwarding.
Forward 
.I listenport
on the local host through the SSH connection to 
.I port
on 
.IR host .
.TP
.B \-R\fR [\fIlistenaddress\fR]:\fIlistenport\fR:\fIhost\fR:\fIport\fR
Remote port forwarding.
Forward 
.I listenport
on the remote host through the SSH connection to 
.I port
on 
.IR host .
.TP
.B \-l \fIuser
Username.
Login as
.I user
on the remote host. An alternative is to specify user@host.
.TP
.B \-t
Allocate a PTY. This is the default when no command is given, it gives a full
interactive remote session. The main effect is that keystrokes are sent remotely 
immediately as opposed to local line-based editing.
.TP
.B \-T
Don't allocate a PTY. This is the default when a command is given. See -t.
.TP
.B \-N
Don't request a remote shell or run any commands. Any command arguments are ignored.
.TP
.B \-f
Fork into the background after authentication. A command argument (or -N) is required.
This is useful when using password authentication.
.TP
.B \-g
Allow non-local hosts to connect to forwarded ports. Applies to -L and -R
forwarded ports, though remote connections to -R forwarded ports may be limited
by the ssh server.
.TP
.B \-y
Always accept hostkeys if they are unknown. If a hostkey mismatch occurs the
connection will abort as normal. If specified a second time no host key checking
is performed at all, this is usually undesirable.
.TP
.B \-A
Forward agent connections to the remote host. dbclient will use any
OpenSSH-style agent program if available ($SSH_AUTH_SOCK will be set) for
public key authentication.  Forwarding is only enabled if \fI-A\fR is specified.

Beware that a forwarded agent connection will allow the remote server to have
the same authentication credentials as you have used locally. A compromised
remote server could use that to log in to other servers. 

In many situations Dropbear's multi-hop mode is a better and more secure alternative
to agent forwarding, avoiding having to trust the intermediate server.

If the SSH agent program is set to prompt when a key is used, the 
\fI-o DisableTrivialAuth\fR option can prevent UI confusion.

.TP
.B \-W \fIwindowsize
Specify the per-channel receive window buffer size. Increasing this 
may improve network performance at the expense of memory use. Use -h to see the
default buffer size.
.TP
.B \-K \fItimeout_seconds
Ensure that traffic is transmitted at a certain interval in seconds. This is
useful for working around firewalls or routers that drop connections after
a certain period of inactivity. The trade-off is that a session may be
closed if there is a temporary lapse of network connectivity. A setting
if 0 disables keepalives. If no response is received for 3 consecutive keepalives the connection will be closed.
.TP
.B \-I \fIidle_timeout
Disconnect the session if no traffic is transmitted or received for \fIidle_timeout\fR seconds.
.TP
.B \-z
By default Dropbear will send network traffic with the \fBAF21\fR setting for QoS, letting network devices give it higher priority. Some devices may have problems with that, \fI-z\fR can be used to disable it.
.TP

.\" TODO: how to avoid a line break between these two -J arguments?
.B \-J \fIproxy_command
.TP
.B \-J \fI&fd
.br
Use the standard input/output of the program \fIproxy_command\fR rather than using
a normal TCP connection. A hostname should be still be provided, as this is used for
comparing saved hostkeys. This command will be executed as "exec proxy_command ..." with the
default shell.

The second form &fd will make dbclient use the numeric file descriptor as a socket. This
can be used for more complex tunnelling scenarios. Example usage with socat is

socat EXEC:'dbclient -J &38 ev',fdin=38,fdout=38 TCP4:host.example.com:22

.TP
.B \-B \fIendhost:endport
"Netcat-alike" mode, where Dropbear will connect to the given host, then create a
forwarded connection to \fIendhost\fR. This will then be presented as dbclient's
standard input/output.
.TP
.B \-c \fIcipherlist
Specify a comma separated list of ciphers to enable. Use \fI-c help\fR to list possibilities.
.TP
.B \-m \fIMAClist
Specify a comma separated list of authentication MACs to enable. Use \fI-m help\fR to list possibilities.
.TP
.B \-o \fIoption
Can be used to give options in the format used by OpenSSH config file. This is
useful for specifying options for which there is no separate command-line flag.
For full details of the options listed below, and their possible values, see
ssh_config(5).
The following options have currently been implemented:

.RS
.TP
.B BatchMode
Disable interactive prompts e.g. password prompts and host key confirmation. The argument must be "yes" or "no" (the default).
.TP
.B BindAddress
Specify address and port on the local machine as the source address of the connection.
.TP
.B DisableTrivialAuth
Disallow a server immediately
giving successful authentication (without presenting any password/pubkey prompt).
This avoids a UI confusion issue where it may appear that the user is accepting
a SSH agent prompt from their local machine, but are actually accepting a prompt
sent immediately by the remote server.
.TP
.B ExitOnForwardFailure
Specifies whether dbclient should terminate the connection if it cannot set up all requested local and remote port forwardings. The argument must be "yes" or "no" (the default).
.TP
.B ForwardAgent
Forward the authentication agent to the remote machine. The argument must be "yes" or "no" (the default).
.TP
.B GatewayPorts
Allow to remote host to connect to local forwarded ports. The argument must be "yes" or "no" (the default).
.TP
.B IdentityFile
Specify an authentication identity file path.
.TP
.B PasswordAuthentication
Allow to prompt a user for a password. If the DROPBEAR_PASSWORD env is specified then it still will be used. The argument must be "yes" (the default) or "no".
.TP
.B Port
Specify a listening port, like the \fI-p\fR argument.
.TP
.B ProxyCommand
Specify the proxy command to use to connect to the server.
.TP
.B ServerAliveInterval
Sets a timeout interval in seconds between keep-alive messages through the encrypted channel. The default is 0 e.g. disabled.
.TP
.B StrictHostKeyChecking
Use "yes" to refuse connection to hosts where the host key is not already
correct in known_hosts. Entries must be added to known_hosts manually.

Use "no" to skip the known_hosts key checking.

Use "accept-new" to add new host keys to the known_hosts and
refuse to connect if the host key has changed.

"ask" is the default.

.TP
.B UseSyslog
Send dbclient log messages to syslog in addition to stderr.
.RE
.TP
.B \-s 
The specified command will be requested as a subsystem, used for sftp. Dropbear doesn't implement sftp itself but the OpenSSH sftp client can be used eg \fIsftp -S dbclient user@host\fR
.TP
.B \-b \fI[address][:port]
Bind to a specific local address when connecting to the remote host. This can be used to choose from
multiple outgoing interfaces. Either address or port (or both) can be given.
.TP
.B \-V
Print the version

.SH MULTI-HOP
Dropbear will also allow multiple "hops" to be specified, separated by commas. In
this case a connection will be made to the first host, then a TCP forwarded 
connection will be made through that to the second host, and so on. Hosts other than
the final destination will not see anything other than the encrypted SSH stream. 
A port for a host can be specified with a caret (eg matt@martello^44 ).
This syntax can also be used with scp or rsync (specifying dbclient as the 
ssh/rsh command). A file can be "bounced" through multiple SSH hops, eg

scp -S dbclient matt@martello,root@wrt,canyons:/tmp/dump .

Note that hostnames are resolved by the prior hop (so "canyons" would be resolved by the host "wrt")
in the example above, the same way as other -L TCP forwarded hosts are. Host keys are 
checked locally based on the given hostname.

.SH ESCAPE CHARACTERS
Typing a newline followed by the  key sequence \fI~.\fR (tilde, dot) will terminate a connection.
The sequence \fI~^Z\fR (tilde, ctrl-z) will background the connection. This behaviour only
applies when a PTY is used.

\fI~R\fR will perform a key re-exchange of ephemeral session keys.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B DROPBEAR_PASSWORD
A password to use for remote authentication can be specified in the environment
variable DROPBEAR_PASSWORD. Care should be taken that the password is not
exposed to other users on a multi-user system, or stored in accessible files.
.TP
.B SSH_ASKPASS
dbclient can use an external program to request a password from a user.
SSH_ASKPASS should be set to the path of a program that will return a password
on standard output. This program will only be used if either DISPLAY is set and
standard input is not a TTY, or the environment variable SSH_ASKPASS_ALWAYS is
set.

.SH FILES
.B ~/.ssh/dropbear_config

This is the per user configuration file. A very limited subset of the keywords for
ssh_config(5) is supported, and none of the advanced features. The file contains
key value pairs on a single line separated with space or '='. Empty lines are ignored.
Text starting with '#' is a comment, and also ignored.

The file is not considered if multi-hop connection is used. Values on the command line
override the respective values in the file.

The recognized keywords are as follows. Keywords are case insensitive and values are
case insensitive.

.TP
.B Host
Defines the options that would be applied if this value matches the host specified
on the command line. The next Host entry or EOF determine the list of applicable
options.

.TP
.B HostName
Specifies the actual host name to connect to. Can be DNS name or IP address.

.TP
.B Port
Specifies the port number to use to connect to the remote host.

.TP
.B 
User
Specifies the user name to login in as.

.TP
.B
IdentityFile
Specifies the file with the private key used for public key authentication with the remote
host. The file must be in the Dropbear format. See dropbearkey(1) to generate one. A '~/' at
the start of the path will expanded to the executing user's home directory. A path that
does not start with '/' will be treated relative to this configuration file's directory. Otherwise
the path will be used as is.

Because this file contains a secret it must have strict permissions to prevent abuse
attempts - read/write for the executing user, and no access to anyone else.

.SH NOTES
If compiled with zlib support and if the server supports it, dbclient will
always use compression.

.SH AUTHOR
Matt Johnston (matt@ucc.asn.au).
.br
Mihnea Stoenescu wrote initial Dropbear client support
.br
Gerrit Pape (pape@smarden.org) wrote this manual page.
.SH SEE ALSO
dropbear(8), dropbearkey(1)
.P
https://matt.ucc.asn.au/dropbear/dropbear.html
