.TH DEVLINK\-DPIPE 8 "4 Apr 2020" "iproute2" "Linux"
.SH NAME
devlink-dpipe \- devlink dataplane pipeline visualization
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.ad l
.in +8
.ti -8
.B devlink
.RI "[ " OPTIONS " ]"
.B dpipe
.RB "{ " table " | " header " }"
.RI "{ " COMMAND " | "
.BR help " }"
.sp

.ti -8
.IR OPTIONS " := { "
\fB\-V\fR[\fIersion\fR] }

.ti -8
.BI "devlink dpipe table show " DEV
.RB "[ "  name
.IR TABLE_NAME " ]"

.ti -8
.BI "devlink dpipe table set " DEV
.BI name " TABLE_NAME "

.ti -8
.BI "devlink dpipe table dump " DEV
.BI name " TABLE_NAME "

.ti -8
.BI "devlink dpipe header show " DEV

.ti -8
.B devlink dpipe help

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.SS devlink dpipe table show - display devlink dpipe table attributes

.TP
.BI name " TABLE_NAME"
Specifies the table to operate on.

.SS devlink dpipe table set - set devlink dpipe table attributes

.TP
.BI name " TABLE_NAME"
Specifies the table to operate on.

.SS devlink dpipe table dump - dump devlink dpipe table entries

.TP
.BI name " TABLE_NAME"
Specifies the table to operate on.

.SS devlink dpipe header show - display devlink dpipe header attributes

.TP
.BI name " TABLE_NAME"
Specifies the table to operate on.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
devlink dpipe table show pci/0000:01:00.0
.RS 4
Shows all dpipe tables on specified devlink device.
.RE
.PP
devlink dpipe table show pci/0000:01:00.0 name mlxsw_erif
.RS 4
Shows mlxsw_erif dpipe table on specified devlink device.
.RE
.PP
devlink dpipe table set pci/0000:01:00.0 name mlxsw_erif counters_enabled true
.RS 4
Turns on the counters on mlxsw_erif table.
.RE
.PP
devlink dpipe table dump pci/0000:01:00.0 name mlxsw_erif
.RS 4
Dumps content of mlxsw_erif table.
.RE
.PP
devlink dpipe header show pci/0000:01:00.0
.RS 4
Shows all dpipe headers on specified devlink device.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR devlink (8),
.BR devlink-dev (8),
.BR devlink-monitor (8),
.br

.SH AUTHOR
Jiri Pirko <jiri@mellanox.com>
