.TH IP\-NEXTHOP 8 "30 May 2019" "iproute2" "Linux"
.SH "NAME"
ip-nexthop \- nexthop object management
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.sp
.ad l
.in +8
.ti -8
.B ip
.RI "[ " ip-OPTIONS " ]"
.B nexthop
.RI " { " COMMAND " | "
.BR help " }"
.sp
.ti -8

.ti -8
.BR "ip nexthop" " { "
.BR show " | " flush " } "
.I  SELECTOR

.ti -8
.BR "ip nexthop" " { " add " | " replace " } id "
.I ID
.IR  NH

.ti -8
.BR "ip nexthop" " { " get " | " del " } id "
.I  ID

.ti -8
.IR SELECTOR " := "
.RB "[ " id
.IR ID " ] [ "
.B  dev
.IR DEV " ] [ "
.B  vrf
.IR NAME " ] [ "
.B  master
.IR DEV " ] [ "
.BR  groups " ] [ "
.BR  fdb " ]"

.ti -8
.IR NH " := { "
.BR blackhole " | [ "
.B  via
.IR ADDRESS " ] [ "
.B  dev
.IR DEV " ] [ "
.BR onlink " ] [ "
.B encap
.IR ENCAP " ] [ "
.BR fdb " ] | "
.B  group
.IR GROUP " [ "
.BR fdb " ] } "

.ti -8
.IR ENCAP " := [ "
.IR ENCAP_MPLS " ] "

.ti -8
.IR ENCAP_MPLS " := "
.BR mpls " [ "
.IR LABEL " ] ["
.B  ttl
.IR TTL " ]"

.ti -8
.IR GROUP " := "
.BR id "[," weight "[/...]"

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ip nexthop
is used to manipulate entries in the kernel's nexthop tables.
.TP
ip nexthop add id ID
add new nexthop entry
.TP
ip nexthop replace id ID
change the configuration of a nexthop or add new one
.RS
.TP
.BI via " [ FAMILY ] ADDRESS"
the address of the nexthop router, in the address family FAMILY.
Address family must match address family of nexthop instance.
.TP
.BI dev " NAME"
is the output device.
.TP
.B onlink
pretend that the nexthop is directly attached to this link,
even if it does not match any interface prefix.
.TP
.BI encap " ENCAPTYPE ENCAPHDR"
attach tunnel encapsulation attributes to this route.
.sp
.I ENCAPTYPE
is a string specifying the supported encapsulation type. Namely:

.in +8
.BI mpls
- encapsulation type MPLS
.sp
.in -8
.I ENCAPHDR
is a set of encapsulation attributes specific to the
.I ENCAPTYPE.

.in +8
.B mpls
.in +2
.I MPLSLABEL
- mpls label stack with labels separated by
.I "/"
.sp

.B ttl
.I TTL
- TTL to use for MPLS header or 0 to inherit from IP header
.in -2

.TP
.BI group " GROUP"
create a nexthop group. Group specification is id with an optional
weight (id,weight) and a '/' as a separator between entries.
.TP
.B blackhole
create a blackhole nexthop
.TP
.B fdb
nexthop and nexthop groups for use with layer-2 fdb entries.
A fdb nexthop group can only have fdb nexthops.
Example: Used to represent a vxlan remote vtep ip. layer-2 vxlan
fdb entry pointing to an ecmp nexthop group containing multiple
remote vtep ips.
.RE

.TP
ip nexthop delete id ID
delete nexthop with given id.

.TP
ip nexthop show
show the contents of the nexthop table or the nexthops
selected by some criteria.
.RS
.TP
.BI dev " DEV "
show the nexthops using the given device.
.TP
.BI vrf " NAME "
show the nexthops using devices associated with the vrf name
.TP
.BI master " DEV "
show the nexthops using devices enslaved to given master device
.TP
.BI groups
show only nexthop groups
.TP
.BI fdb
show only fdb nexthops and nexthop groups
.RE
.TP
ip nexthop flush
flushes nexthops selected by some criteria. Criteria options are the same
as show.

.TP
ip nexthop get id ID
get a single nexthop by id

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
ip nexthop ls
.RS 4
Show all nexthop entries in the kernel.
.RE
.PP
ip nexthop add id 1 via 192.168.1.1 dev eth0
.RS 4
Adds an IPv4 nexthop with id 1 using the gateway 192.168.1.1 out device eth0.
.RE
.PP
ip nexthop add id 2 encap mpls 200/300 via 10.1.1.1 dev eth0
.RS 4
Adds an IPv4 nexthop with mpls encapsulation attributes attached to it.
.RE
.PP
ip nexthop add id 3 group 1/2
.RS 4
Adds a nexthop with id 3. The nexthop is a group using nexthops with ids
1 and 2 at equal weight.
.RE
.PP
ip nexthop add id 4 group 1,5/2,11
.RS 4
Adds a nexthop with id 4. The nexthop is a group using nexthops with ids
1 and 2 with nexthop 1 at weight 5 and nexthop 2 at weight 11.
.RE
.PP
ip nexthop add id 5 via 192.168.1.2 fdb
.RS 4
Adds a fdb nexthop with id 5.
.RE
.PP
ip nexthop add id 7 group 5/6 fdb
.RS 4
Adds a fdb nexthop group with id 7. A fdb nexthop group can only have
fdb nexthops.
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.br
.BR ip (8)

.SH AUTHOR
Original Manpage by David Ahern <dsahern@kernel.org>
