.TH RDMA\-DEV 8 "06 Jul 2017" "iproute2" "Linux"
.SH NAME
rdma-dev \- RDMA device configuration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.ad l
.in +8
.ti -8
.B rdma
.RI "[ " OPTIONS " ]"
.B dev
.RI  " { " COMMAND " | "
.BR help " }"
.sp

.ti -8
.IR OPTIONS " := { "
\fB\-V\fR[\fIersion\fR] |
\fB\-d\fR[\fIetails\fR] }

.ti -8
.B rdma dev show
.RI "[ " DEV " ]"

.ti -8
.B rdma dev set
.RI "[ " DEV " ]"
.BR name
.BR NEWNAME

.ti -8
.B rdma dev set
.RI "[ " DEV " ]"
.BR netns
.BR NSNAME

.ti -8
.B rdma dev set
.RI "[ " DEV " ]"
.BR adaptive-moderation
.BR [on/off]

.ti -8
.B rdma dev help

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.SS rdma dev set - rename RDMA device or set network namespace or set RDMA device adaptive-moderation

.SS rdma dev show - display RDMA device attributes

.PP
.I "DEV"
- specifies the RDMA device to show.
If this argument is omitted all devices are listed.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
rdma dev
.RS 4
Shows the state of all RDMA devices on the system.
.RE
.PP
rdma dev show mlx5_3
.RS 4
Shows the state of specified RDMA device.
.RE
.PP
rdma dev set mlx5_3 name rdma_0
.RS 4
Renames the mlx5_3 device to rdma_0.
.RE
.PP
rdma dev set mlx5_3 netns foo
.RS 4
Changes the network namespace of RDMA device to foo where foo is
previously created using iproute2 ip command.
.RE
.PP
rdma dev set mlx5_3 adaptive-moderation [on/off]
.RS 4
Sets the state of adaptive interrupt moderation for the RDMA device.
.RE
.RS 4
This is a global setting for the RDMA device but the value is printed for each CQ individually because the state is constant from CQ allocation.
.RE
.PP

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ip (8),
.BR rdma (8),
.BR rdma-link (8),
.BR rdma-resource (8),
.BR rdma-system (8),
.BR rdma-statistic (8),
.br

.SH AUTHOR
Leon Romanovsky <leonro@mellanox.com>
