.TH RDMA 8 "28 Mar 2017" "iproute2" "Linux"
.SH NAME
rdma \- RDMA tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.ad l
.in +8
.ti -8
.B rdma
.RI "[ " OPTIONS " ] " OBJECT " { " COMMAND " | "
.BR help " }"
.sp

.ti -8
.B rdma
.RB "[ " -force " ] "
.BI "-batch " filename
.sp

.ti -8
.IR OBJECT " := { "
.BR dev " | " link " | " resource " | " system " | " statistic " }"
.sp

.ti -8
.IR OPTIONS " := { "
\fB\-V\fR[\fIersion\fR] |
\fB\-d\fR[\fIetails\fR] }
\fB\-j\fR[\fIson\fR] }
\fB\-p\fR[\fIretty\fR] }

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.BR "\-V" , " -Version"
Print the version of the
.B rdma
tool and exit.

.TP
.BR "\-b", " \-batch " <FILENAME>
Read commands from provided file or standard input and invoke them.
First failure will cause termination of rdma.

.TP
.BR "\-force"
Don't terminate rdma on errors in batch mode.
If there were any errors during execution of the commands, the application return code will be non zero.

.TP
.BR "\-d" , " --details"
Output detailed information.  Adding a second \-d includes driver-specific details.

.TP
.BR "\-r" , " --raw"
Output includes driver-specific details in raw format.

.TP
.BR "\-p" , " --pretty"
When combined with -j generate a pretty JSON output.

.TP
.BR "\-j" , " --json"
Generate JSON output.

.SS
.I OBJECT

.TP
.B dev
- RDMA device.

.TP
.B link
- RDMA port related.

.TP
.B resource
- RDMA resource configuration.

.TP
.B sys
- RDMA subsystem related.

.TP
.B statistic
- RDMA counter statistic related.

.PP
The names of all objects may be written in full or
abbreviated form, for example
.B stats
can be abbreviated as
.B stat
or just
.B s.

.SS
.I COMMAND

Specifies the action to perform on the object.
The set of possible actions depends on the object type.
As a rule, it is possible to
.B show
(or
.B list
) objects, but some objects do not allow all of these operations
or have some additional commands. The
.B help
command is available for all objects. It prints
out a list of available commands and argument syntax conventions.
.sp
If no command is given, some default command is assumed.
Usually it is
.B list
or, if the objects of this class cannot be listed,
.BR "help" .

.SH EXIT STATUS
Exit status is 0 if command was successful or a positive integer upon failure.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rdma-dev (8),
.BR rdma-link (8),
.BR rdma-resource (8),
.BR rdma-system (8),
.BR rdma-statistic (8),
.br

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report any bugs to the Linux RDMA mailing list
.B <linux-rdma@vger.kernel.org>
where the development and maintenance is primarily done.
You do not have to be subscribed to the list to send a message there.

.SH AUTHOR
Leon Romanovsky <leonro@mellanox.com>
