.TH "Route classifier in tc" 8 "21 Oct 2015" "iproute2" "Linux"

.SH NAME
route \- route traffic control filter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.in +8
.ti -8
.BR tc " " filter " ... " route " [ " from
.IR REALM " | "
.B fromif
.IR TAG " ] [ "
.B to
.IR REALM " ] [ "
.B classid
.IR CLASSID " ] [ "
.B action
.IR ACTION_SPEC " ]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Match packets based on routing table entries. This filter centers around the
possibility to assign a
.B realm
to routing table entries. For any packet to be classified by this filter, a
routing table lookup is performed and the returned
.B realm
is used to decide on whether the packet is a match or not.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI action " ACTION_SPEC"
Apply an action from the generic actions framework on matching packets.
.TP
.BI classid " CLASSID"
Push matching packets into the class identified by
.IR CLASSID .
.TP
.BI from " REALM"
.TQ
.BI fromif " TAG"
Perform source route lookups.
.I TAG
is the name of an interface which must be present on the system at the time of
.B tc
invocation.
.TP
.BI to " REALM"
Match if normal (i.e., destination) routing returns the given
.IR REALM .
.SH EXAMPLES
Consider the subnet 192.168.2.0/24 being attached to eth0:

.RS
.EX
ip route add 192.168.2.0/24 dev eth0 realm 2
.EE
.RE

The following
.B route
filter will then match packets from that subnet:

.RS
.EX
tc filter add ... route from 2 classid 1:2
.EE
.RE

and pass packets on to class 1:2.
.SH NOTES
Due to implementation details,
.B realm
values must be in a range from 0 to 255, inclusive. Alternatively, a verbose
name defined in /etc/iproute2/rt_realms may be given instead.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tc (8),
.BR ip-route (8)
