.TH TIPC-NAMETABLE 8 "02 Jun 2015" "iproute2" "Linux"

.\" For consistency, please keep padding right aligned.
.\" For example '.B "foo " bar' and not '.B foo " bar"'

.SH NAME
tipc-nametable \- show TIPC nametable

.SH SYNOPSIS
.ad l
.in +8

.ti -8
.B tipc nametable show
.br

.SH OPTIONS
Options (flags) that can be passed anywhere in the command chain.
.TP
.BR "\-h" , " --help"

.TP
.BR "\-j", " \-json"
Output results in JavaScript Object Notation (JSON).

.TP
.BR "\-p", " \-pretty"
The default JSON format is compact and more efficient to parse but hard for most users to read.
This flag adds indentation for readability.

Show help about last valid command. For example
.B tipc nametable --help
will show nametable help and
.B tipc --help
will show general help. The position of the option in the string is irrelevant.

.SH DESCRIPTION
The nametable shows TIPC publication information.

.SS Nametable format

.TP
.B Type
.br
The 32-bit type field of the port name. The type field often indicates the class of service
provided by a port.

.TP
.B Lower
.br
The lower bound of the 32-bit instance field of the port name.
The instance field is often used as as a sub-class indicator.

.TP
.B Upper
.br
The upper bound of the 32-bit instance field of the port name.
The instance field is often used as as a sub-class indicator.
A difference in
.BR "lower " "and " upper
means the socket is bound to the port name range [lower,upper]

.TP
.B Port Identity
.br
The unique socket (port) identifier within the TIPC cluster. The
.B port identity
consists of a node identity followed by a socket reference number.

.TP
.B Publication
.br
The
.B publication
ID is a random number used internally to represent a publication.

.TP
.B Scope
.br
The publication
.B scope
specifies the visibility of a bound port name.
The
.B scope
can be specified to comprise three different domains:
.BR node ", " "cluster " "and " zone.
Applications residing within the specified
.B scope
can see and access the port using the displayed port name.

.SH EXIT STATUS
Exit status is 0 if command was successful or a positive integer upon failure.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tipc (8),
.BR tipc-bearer (8),
.BR tipc-link (8),
.BR tipc-media (8),
.BR tipc-node (8),
.BR tipc-peer (8),
.BR tipc-socket (8)
.br
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report any bugs to the Network Developers mailing list
.B <netdev@vger.kernel.org>
where the development and maintenance is primarily done.
You do not have to be subscribed to the list to send a message there.

.SH AUTHOR
Richard Alpe <richard.alpe@ericsson.com>
