.\" Copyright (c) 2011-2020 Tuxera Inc.
.\"
.TH TAPFS\-U 8 "September 2020" "Tuxera APFS/U 3020.7.28.4"
.SH NAME
tapfs\-u \- FUSE\-based APFS driver.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tapfs\-u
\fB[\-f]\fR
\fB[\-o \fIoption\fP\fB[,...]]\fR
.I volume mount_point
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBtapfs\-u\fR is a read-only driver which can access the content of APFS
volumes.
.PP
The \fIvolume\fR to be mounted can be either a block device or an image file.
.SS Access Handling and Security
APFS has full support for UNIX permissions (mode/uid/gid).
.SH OPTIONS
Below is a summary of the options that \fBtapfs\-u\fR accepts.
.TP
\fB\-f/\-\-foreground\fP
Runs the file system in the foreground, without daemonizing it (which is the
default behaviour). This means that any error messages are printed directly to
the console.
.TP
\fB\-h/\-\-help\fP
Displays a brief help message including version number and copyright
information.
.TP
\fB\-v/\-\-verbose\fP
No\-op option that APFS/U accepts in order to be compatible with options passed
by \fBmount\fP(8).
.TP
\fB\-V/\-\-version\fP
Dumps the version number of APFS/U and exits immediately.
.TP
\fB\-o/\-\-options\fP \fIoption\fP\fB[,...]\fP
The mount options. These are described in more detail below.
.SH MOUNT OPTIONS
Below is a summary of the mount options that \fBtapfs\-u\fR accepts.
.TP
.BI volume_id= id
This option selects a volume in the APFS container other than the default one.
.TP
.BI vol_uuid= uuid
This option selects a volume by its UUID, as shown by \fBapfsinfo\fR.
.TP
.BI vol_name= name
This option selects a volume by its name.
.TP
.BI passphrase= passphrase
This optional option specifies the password on the commandline (unsafe). If it
is omitted, the driver will ask for the password when accessing an encrypted
volume.
.TP
.BI tier2= tier2-device
This optional option specifies a tier2 device. This is only needed for fusion
drives. In this case, specify the SSD as main device and the HD as tier2 device.
.TP
.B allow_other
This option overrides the security measure restricting file access to the user
mounting the filesystem. This option is only allowed to root, but this
restriction can be overridden by the 'user_allow_other' option in the
/etc/fuse.conf file.
.TP
.BI max_read= value
With this option the maximum size of read operations can be set. The default is
infinite. Note that the size of read requests is limited anyway to 32 pages
(which is 128 KiB on i386).
.TP
.B no_def_opts
By default tapfs\-u acts as if "allow_other" (allow any user to access files)
"default_permissions" (uid/gid/mode permission checks enabled) and "nonempty"
(allow mounting on non\-empty directories) were set.
"no_def_opts" cancels these default options.
.TP
.B big_writes
This option prevents fuse from splitting write buffers into 4K chunks, enabling
big write buffers to be transferred from the application in a single step (up to
some system limit, generally 128 KiB).
.br
(Only available in FUSE 2.8 and higher.)
.TP
.B debug
Makes tapfs\-u to print a lot of debug output from libfuse and libapfs (if
compiled with debug messages enabled).
.SH EXAMPLES
Mount /dev/sda1 to /mnt/apfsvol:
.RS
.sp
.B tapfs\-u /dev/sda1 /mnt/apfsvol
.sp
.RE
Read\-only mount /dev/sda5 to /home/user/mnt:
.RS
.sp
.B tapfs\-u /dev/sda5 /home/user/mnt \-o ro
.sp
.RE
Unmount /mnt/apfsvol:
.RS
.sp
.B umount /mnt/apfsvol
.sp
.RE
.SH EXIT CODES
Exit code 0 means success, and everything else means error. Currently the driver
only returns 1 on failure (additional error info is printed to stderr).
.SH KNOWN ISSUES
No known issues.
.sp
Please see:
.RS
http://www.tuxera.com/support/
.RE
for info on commercial support services.
.SH AUTHORS
.B tapfs\-u
was written in 2018 by Simon Gander for Tuxera Inc.
