.TH RADCLIENT 1 "2 April 2009" "" "FreeRADIUS Daemon"
.SH NAME
radclient - send packets to a RADIUS server, show reply
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B radclient
.RB [ \-4 ]
.RB [ \-6 ]
.RB [ \-d
.IR raddb_directory ]
.RB [ \-c
.IR count ]
.RB [ \-f
.IR file ]
.RB [ \-F ]
.RB [ \-h ]
.RB [ \-i
.IR id ]
.RB [ \-n
.IR num_requests_per_second ]
.RB [ \-p
.IR num_requests_in_parallel ]
.RB [ \-q ]
.RB [ \-r
.IR num_retries ]
.RB [ \-s ]
.RB [ \-S
.IR shared_secret_file ]
.RB [ \-t
.IR timeout ]
.RB [ \-v ]
.RB [ \-x ]
\fIserver {acct|auth|status|disconnect|auto} secret\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBradclient\fP is a radius client program. It can send arbitrary radius
packets to a radius server, then shows the reply. It can be used to
test changes you made in the configuration of the radius server,
or it can be used to monitor if a radius server is up.
.PP
\fBradclient\fP reads radius attribute/value pairs from it standard
input, or from a file specified on the command line. It then encodes
these attribute/value pairs using the dictionary, and sends them
to the remote server.
.PP
The \fIUser-Password\fP and \fICHAP-Password\fP attributes are
automatically encrypted before the packet is sent to the server.

.SH OPTIONS

.IP \-4
Use IPv4 (default)
.IP \-6
Use IPv6
.IP \-c\ \fIcount\fP
Send each packet \fIcount\fP times.
.IP \-d\ \fIraddb_directory\fP
The directory that contains the RADIUS dictionary files. Defaults to
\fI/etc/raddb\fP.
.IP \-f\ \fIfile\fP
File to read the attribute/value pairs from. If this is not specified,
they are read from stdin.  This option can be specified multiple
times, in which case packets are sent in order by file, and within
each file, by first packet to last packet.  A blank line separates
logical packets within a file.
.IP \-F
Print the file name, packet number and reply code.
.IP \-h
Print usage help information.
.IP \-i\ \fIid\fP
Use \fIid\fP as the RADIUS request Id.
.IP \-n\ \fInum_requests_per_second\fP
Try to send \fInum_requests_per_second\fP, evenly spaced.  This option
allows you to slow down the rate at which radclient sends requests.
When not using -n, the default is to send packets as quickly as
possible, with no inter-packet delays.

Due to limitations in radclient, this option does not accurately send
the requested number of packets per second.
.IP \-p\ \fInum_requests_in_parallel\fP
Send \fInum_requests_in_parallel\fP, without waiting for a response
for each one.  By default, radclient sends the first request it has
read, waits for the response, and once the response is received, sends
the second request in its list.  This option allows you to send many
requests at simultaneously.  Once \fInum_requests_in_parallel\fP are
sent, radclient waits for all of the responses to arrive (or for the
requests to time out), before sending any more packets.

This option permits you to discover the maximum load accepted by a
RADIUS server.
.IP \-q
Go to quiet mode, and do not print out anything.
.IP \-r\ \fInum_retries\fP
Try to send each packet \fInum_retries\fP times, before giving up on
it.  The default is 10.
.IP \-s
Print out some summaries of packets sent and received.
.IP \-S\ \fIshared_secret_file\fP
Rather than reading the shared secret from the command-line (where it
can be seen by others on the local system), read it instead from
\fIshared_secret_file\fP.
.IP \-t\ \fItimeout\fP
Wait \fItimeout\fP seconds before deciding that the NAS has not
responded to a request, and re-sending the packet.  The default
timeout is 3.
.IP \-v
Print out version information.
.IP \-x
Print out debugging information.
.IP server[:port]
The hostname or IP address of the remote server. Optionally a UDP port
can be specified. If no UDP port is specified, it is looked up in
\fI/etc/services\fP. The service name looked for is \fBradacct\fP for
accounting packets, and \fBradius\fP for all other requests. If a
service is not found in \fI/etc/services\fP, 1813 and 1812 are used
respectively.

The RADIUS attributes read by \fIradclient\fP can contain the special
attribute \fBPacket-Dst-IP-Address\fP.  If this attribute exists, then
that IP address is where the packet is sent, and the \fBserver\fP
specified on the command-line is ignored.

If the RADIUS attribute list always contains the
\fBPacket-Dst-IP-Address\fP attribute, then the \fBserver\fP parameter
can be given as \fB-\fP.

The RADIUS attributes read by \fIradclient\fP can contain the special
attribute \fBPacket-Dst-Port\fP.  If this attribute exists, then that
UDP port is where the packet is sent, and the \fB:port\fP specified
on the command-line is ignored.

.IP acct\ |\ auth\ |\ status\ |\ disconnect\ |\ auto
Use \fBauth\fP to send an authentication packet (Access-Request),
\fBacct\fP to send an accounting packet (Accounting-Request),
\fBstatus\fP to send an status packet (Status-Server), or
\fBdisconnect\fP to send a disconnection request. Instead of these
values, you can also use a decimal code here. For example, code 12 is
also \fBStatus-Server\fP.

The RADIUS attributes read by \fIradclient\fP can contain the special
attribute \fBPacket-Type\fP.  If this attribute exists, then that type
of packet is sent, and the \fItype\fP specified on the command-line
is ignored.

If the RADIUS attribute list always contains the
\fBPacket-Type\fP attribute, then the \fBtype\fP parameter can be
given as \fBauto\fP.

.IP secret
The shared secret for this client.  It needs to be defined on the
radius server side too, for the IP address you are sending the radius
packets from.

.SH EXAMPLE

A sample session that queries the remote server for
\fIStatus-Server\fP (not all servers support this, but FreeRADIUS has
configurable support for it).
.RS
.sp
.nf
.ne 3
$ echo "Message-Authenticator = 0x00" | radclient 192.0.2.42 status s3cr3t
Sending request to server 192.0.2.42, port 1812.
radrecv: Packet from host 192.0.2.42 code=2, id=140, length=54
    Reply-Message = "FreeRADIUS up 21 days, 02:05"
.fi
.sp
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
radiusd(8),
.SH AUTHORS
Miquel van Smoorenburg, miquels@cistron.nl.
Alan DeKok <aland@freeradius.org>
