.TH RADEAPCLIENT 1 "08 September 2003" "" "FreeRADIUS Daemon"
.SH NAME
radeapclient - send EAP packets to a RADIUS server, calculate responses
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B radeapclient
.RB [ \-4 ]
.RB [ \-6 ]
.RB [ \-c
.IR count ]
.RB [ \-d
.IR raddb_directory ]
.RB [ \-f
.IR file ]
.RB [ \-h ]
.RB [ \-i
.IR source_ip ]
.RB [ \-q ]
.RB [ \-s ]
.RB [ \-r
.IR retries ]
.RB [ \-S
.IR file ]
.RB [ \-t
.IR timeout ]
.RB [ \-v ]
.RB [ \-x ]
\fIserver {acct|auth} secret\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBradeapclient\fP is a radius client program. It can send arbitrary radius
packets to a radius server, then shows the reply. Radeapclient differs from
radclient in that if there is an EAP-MD5 challenge, then it will be responded
to.
.PP
\fBradeapclient\fP is otherwise identical to \fBradclient\fP.
.PP
The \fIEAP-Identity\fP attribute, if present is used to construct an
EAP Identity message.
.PP
.PP
The \fIEAP-MD5-Password\fP attribute, if present is used to respond to an
MD5 challenge.
.PP
No other EAP types are currently supported.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP \-4
Use IPv4 (default)
.IP \-6
Use IPv6
.IP \-c\ \fIcount\fP
Send each packet \fIcount\fP times.
.IP \-d\ \fIraddb\fP
Set dictionary directory.
.IP \-f\ \fIfile\fP
Read packets from \fIfile\fP, not stdin.
.IP \-r\ \fIretries\fP
If timeout, retry sending the packet \fIretries\fP times.
.IP \-t\ \fItimeout\fP
Wait \fItimeout\fP seconds before retrying (may be a floating point number).
.IP \-h
Print usage help information.
.IP \-i\ \fIid\fP
Set request id to '\fIid\fP'.  Values may be 0..255
.IP \-S\ \fIfile\fP
Read secret from \fIfile\fP, not command line.
.IP \-q
Quiet, do not print anything out.
.IP \-s
Print out summary information of auth results.
.IP \-v
Show program version information.
.IP \-x
Enable debugging mode.

.SH EXAMPLE

A sample session that queries the remote server with an EAP-MD5
challenge.
.RS
.sp
.nf
.ne 3
( echo 'User-Name = "bob"';
  echo 'EAP-MD5-Password = "hello"';
  echo 'NAS-IP-Address = marajade.sandelman.ottawa.on.c';
  echo 'EAP-Code = Response';
  echo 'EAP-Id = 210';
  echo 'EAP-Type-Identity = "bob";
  echo 'Message-Authenticator = 0x00';
  echo 'NAS-Port = 0' ) >req.txt

radeapclient -x localhost auth testing123 <req.txt
.fi
.sp
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
radclient(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Michael Richardson, <mcr@sandelman.ottawa.on.ca>
