.TH RADTEST 1 "5 April 2010" "" "FreeRADIUS Daemon"
.SH NAME
radtest - send packets to a RADIUS server, show reply
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B radtest
.RB [ \-d
.IR raddb_directory ]
.RB [ \-t
.IR pap/chap/mschap ]
.RB [ \-x
.IR ]
.RB [ \-4
.IR ]
.RB [ \-6
.IR ]
.I user password radius-server nas-port-number secret
.RB [ ppphint ]
.RB [ nasname ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBradtest\fP is a frontend to \fBradclient\fP(1). It generates a
list of attribute/value pairs based on the command line arguments,
and feeds these into \fBradclient\fP. It's a fast and convenient
way to test a radius server.

.SH OPTIONS

.IP "\-d \fIraddb_directory\fP"
The directory that contains the RADIUS dictionary files. Defaults to
\fI/etc/raddb\fP.

.IP "\-t \fIpap/chap/mschap/eap-md5\fP"
Choose the authentiction method to use.  e.g. "-t pap", "-t chap", "-t
mschap", or "-t eap-md5",.  Defaults to "pap".  Using EAP-MD5 requires
that the "radeapclient" program is installed.

.IP "\-x"
Enables debugging output for the RADIUS client.

.IP "\-4"
Use NAS-IP-Address for the NAS address (default)

.IP "\-6"
Use NAS-IPv6-Address for the NAS address (default)

.IP user
Username to send.

.IP password
Password of the user.

.IP radius-server
Hostname or IP address of the radius server. Optionally, you may specify a
port by appending :port

.IP nas-port-number
The value of the NAS-Port attribute. Is an integer between 0 and 2^31,
and it really doesn't matter what you put here. \fI10\fP will do fine.

.IP secret
The shared secret for this client.

.IP ppphint
If you put an integer > 0 here, radtest (or actually radclient) will
add the attribute \fIFramed-Protocol = PPP\fP to the request packet.

.IP nasname
If present, this will be resolved to an IP address and added to
the request packet as the \fINAS-IP-Address\fP attribute. If you
don't specify it, the local hostname of the system will be used.

.SH SEE ALSO
radiusd(8),
radclient(1).
.SH AUTHOR
Miquel van Smoorenburg, miquels@cistron.nl.
