.TH RADWHO 1 "17 Feb 2013" "" "FreeRADIUS Daemon"
.SH NAME
radwho - show online users
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B radwho
.RB [ \-c ]
.RB [ \-d
.IR raddb_directory ]
.RB [ \-F
.IR radutmp_file ]
.RB [ \-i ]
.RB [ \-n ]
.RB [ \-N
.IR nas_ip_address ]
.RB [ \-p ]
.RB [ \-P
.IR nas_port ]
.RB [ \-r ]
.RB [ \-R ]
.RB [ \-s ]
.RB [ \-S ]
.RB [ \-u
.IR user ]
.RB [ \-U
.IR user ]
.RB [ \-Z ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The FreeRADIUS server can be configured to maintain an active session
database in a file called \fIradutmp\fP. This utility shows the
content of that session database.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \-c
Shows caller ID (if available) instead of the full name.
.IP \-d\ \fIraddb_directory\fP
The directory that contains the RADIUS configuration files. Defaults to
\fI/etc/raddb\fP.
.IP \-F\ \fIradutmp_file\fP
The file that contains the radutmp file.  If this is specified, -d is
not necessary.
.IP \-i
Shows the session ID instead of the full name.
.IP \-n
Normally radwho looks up the username in the systems password file,
and shows the full username as well. The \fB-n\fP flags prevents this.
.IP \-N\ \fInas_ip_address\fP
Show only those entries which match the given NAS IP address.
.IP \-p
Adds an extra column for the port type - I for ISDN, A for Analog.
.IP \-P\ \fInas_port\fP
Show only those entries which match the given NAS port.
.IP \-r
Outputs all data in \fIraw\fP format - no headers, no formatting,
fields are comma-separated.
.IP \-R
Output all data in RADIUS attribute format.  All fields are printed.
.IP \-s
Show full name.
.IP \-S
Hide shell users. Doesn't show the entries for users that do not
have a SLIP or PPP session.
.IP \-u\ \fIuser\fP
Show only those entries which match the given username (case insensitive).
.IP \-U\ \fIuser\fP
Show only those entries which match the given username (case sensitive).
.IP \-Z
When combined with \fI-R\fP, prints out the contents of an
Accounting-Request packet which can be passed to \fIradclient\fP, in
order to "zap" that users session from \fIradutmp\fP.
.PP
For example,
.RS
.sp
.nf
.ne 3
$ radwho -ZRN 10.0.0.1 | radclient -f - radius.example.net acct testing123
.fi
.sp
.RE
will result in all an Accounting-Request packet being sent to the
RADIUS server, which tells the server that the NAS rebooted.  i.e. It
"zaps" all of the users on that NAS.

To "zap" one user, specifiy NAS, username, and NAS port:
.RS
.sp
.nf
.ne 3
$ radwho -ZRN 10.0.0.1 -u user -P 10 | radclient -f - radius.example.net acct testing123
.fi
.sp
.RE
Other combinations are also possible.

.SH SEE ALSO
radiusd(8),
radclient(1),
radiusd.conf(5).
.SH AUTHOR
Miquel van Smoorenburg, miquels@cistron.nl.
