.TH RADZAP 1 "8 April 2005" "" "FreeRadius Daemon"
.SH NAME
radzap - remove rogue entries from the active sessions database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B radzap
.RB [ \-d
.IR raddb_directory ]
.RB [ \-h ]
.RB [ \-N
.IR nas_ip_address ]
.RB [ \-P
.IR nas_port ]
.RB [ \-u
.IR user ]
.RB [ \-U
.IR user ]
.RB [ \-x ]
\fIserver[:port] secret\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
The FreeRadius server can be configured to maintain an active session
database in a file called \fIradutmp\fP. Commands like \fBradwho\fP(1)
use this database. Sometimes that database can get out of sync, and
then it might contain rogue entries. \fBradzap\fP can clean up this
database.

As of FreeRADIUS 1.1.0, \fBradzap\fP is a simple shell-script wrapper
around \fBradwho\fP(1) and \fBradclient\fP(1).

The sessions are "zapped" by sending an Accounting-Request packet
which contains the information necessary for the server to delete the
session record.  \fBradzap\fP sends a packet to the server, rather
than writing to \fIradutmp\fP directly, because session records may
also be maintained in SQL.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \-d\ \fIraddb_directory\fP
The directory that contains the RADIUS configuration files.
\fBradzap\fP reads \fIradiusd.conf\fP to determine the location of the
\fIradutmp\fP file.
.IP \-h
Print usage help information.
.IP \-N\ \fInas_ip_address\fP
Zap the entries which match the given NAS IP address.
.IP \-P\ \fInas_port\fP
Zap the entries which match the given NAS port.
.IP \-u\ \fIuser\fP
Zap the entries which match the given username (case insensitive).
.IP \-U\ \fIuser\fP
Zap the entries which match the given username (case sensitive).
.IP \-x
Enable debugging output.
.IP server[:port]
The hostname or IP address of the remote server. Optionally a UDP port
can be specified. If no UDP port is specified, it is looked up in
\fI/etc/services\fP. The service name looked for is \fBradacct\fP for
accounting packets, and \fBradius\fP for all other requests. If a
service is not found in \fI/etc/services\fP, 1813 and 1812 are used
respectively.
.IP secret
The shared secret for this client.  It needs to be defined on the
radius server side too, for the IP address you are sending the radius
packets from.
.SH SEE ALSO
radwho(1),
radclient(1),
radiusd(8),
radiusd.conf(5).
.SH AUTHOR
Alan DeKok <aland@ox.org>
