.\" Copyright (c) 2014 Sougata Santra / Tuxera Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2011 Erik Larsson / Tuxera Inc.
.\"
.TH FATLABEL 8 "March 2014" "Tuxera TFATprogs 3017.7.17.3"
.SH NAME
fatlabel \- display/change the label on a FAT file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fatlabel
[\fIoptions\fR] \fIdevice
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B fatlabel
will display or change the file system label on the FAT file system located on
.IR device .
.PP
If the option \fB\-l\fR  is not specified, the current volume label will be
printed to standard output and no modifications will be made.
.PP
It is also possible to set the file system label using the
.B \-l
option of
.BR mkfatfs (8)
during creation of the file system.
.SH OPTIONS
Below is a summary of all the options that
.B fatlabel
accepts.  Nearly all options have two equivalent names.  The short name is
preceded by
.B \-
and the long name is preceded by
.BR \-\- .
.TP
\fB\--cp\fR CODEPAGE
Use the given code page to decode or encode the volume label. The following
code pages are supported: 437, 737, 775, 850, 852, 855, 857, 860, 861, 862,
863, 864, 865, 866, 869, 874, 932, 936, 949, 950. The default is 437.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-label\fR LABEL
Set the volume label for the filesystem. The volume label can be up to 11
bytes long when encoded with code page specified by --cp option.
.SH PLEASE NOTE
.B fatlabel
currently does not support FAT12 volumes.
.SH BUGS
There are no known problems with
.BR fatlabel .
If you find a bug please send an email describing the problem to 
fat-support@tuxera.com.
.hy
.SH AUTHORS
.B fatlabel
was written by
.RS 8
Erik Larsson, Tuxera Inc.
.br
Sougata Santra, Tuxera Inc.
.RE
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B fatlabel
is part of the
.B Tuxera TFATprogs
package.
