.TH clients.conf 5 "13 June 2005" "" "FreeRADIUS client configuration"
.SH NAME
clients.conf \- FreeRADIUS client configuration
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.I clients.conf
file contains definitions of RADIUS clients.
.PP
The information in this file overrides any information provided in
the deprecated 
.BR clients (5)
and 
.BR naslist (5)
files.
.PP
The file format is the same as that used for
.I radiusd.conf.
See 
.BR radiusd.conf (5)
for more details.
.PP
Each RADIUS client entry has the following basic form:
.IP
.nf
client <short-name> {
       <attribute> = <value>
 }
.fi
.SH ATTRIBUTES
The attributes that can appear in a 
.B client
section are listed below. Required attributes are labelled as
such. All other attributes are optional.
.TP 0.5i
.B ipaddr [Required]
The IP address of the client.  For IPv6, use "ipv6addr"
.TP 0.5i
.B secret [Required]
The RADIUS shared secret used for communication between the client/NAS
and the RADIUS server.
.TP 0.5i
.B shortname [optional]
A short alias that can be used in place of the IP address or fully
qualified hostname provided in the first line of the section.
.TP 0.5i
.B nas_type
The nas_type attribute is used to tell the 
.BR checkrad.pl
script which NAS-specific method it should use when checking
simultaneous use.

The following values are currently recognized:
.nf
cisco
computone
livingston
max40xx
multitech
netserver
pathras
patton
portslave
tc
usrhiper
other
.fi
.TP 0.5i
.B login
Reserved for future use.
.TP 0.5i
.B password
Reserved for future use.
.SH EXAMPLES
.IP
.nf
client localhost {
        ipaddr          = 127.0.0.1
        secret          = testing123
        shortname       = localhost
        nas_type         = other     
}
.fi
.LP
This adds a client for the loopback address. This is useful in testing
the 
server locally, for example with 
.BR radclient (1).
.IP
.nf
client private-network-1 {
        ipaddr          = 192.0.2.0
        netmask         = 24
        secret          = testing123-1
        shortname       = private-network-1
}
.fi
.LP
This entry represents any client from the 192.0.2.0/24 network. 

The old-style format from 1.x is still accepted by the server, but
that form is deprecated.
.SH FILES
.I /etc/raddb/clients.conf

.I /etc/raddb/radiusd.conf
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR radiusd (8),
.BR radiusd.conf (5),
.BR clients (5),
.BR naslist (5)

.SH AUTHOR
FreeRADIUS is authored by the FreeRADIUS team. 
http://freeradius.org/
