.\"     # DS - begin display
.de DS
.RS
.nf
.sp
..
.\"     # DE - end display
.de DE
.fi
.RE
.sp
..
.TH dictionary 5 "16 Mar 2011"
.SH NAME
dictionary \- RADIUS dictionary file
.SH DESCRIPTION
The master RADIUS dictionary file resides in
\fI/etc/raddb/dictionary\fP.  It references other \fIdictionary\fP
files located in \fI/usr/local/share/freeradius/\fP.  Each dictionary
file contains a list of RADIUS attributes and values, which the server
uses to map between descriptive names and on-the-wire data.  The names
have no meaning outside of the RADIUS server itself, and are never
exchanged between server and clients.
.PP
That is, editing the dictionaries will have NO EFFECT on anything
other than the server that is reading those files.  Adding new
attributes to the dictionaries will have NO EFFECT on RADIUS clients,
and will not make RADIUS clients magically understand those
attributes.  The dictionaries are solely for local administrator
convenience, and are specific to each version of FreeRADIUS.
.PP
The dictionaries in \fI/usr/local/share\fP SHOULD NOT be edited unless
you know exactly what you are doing.  Changing them will most likely
break your RADIUS deployment.
.PP
If you need to add new attributes, please edit the
\fI/etc/raddb/dictionary\fP file.  It's sole purpose is to contain
site-local defintions that are added by the local administrator.

.SH FORMAT
Every line starting with a hash sign
.RB (' # ')
is treated as comment and ignored.
.PP
Each line of the file can contain one of the following strings:
.TP 0.5i
.B ATTRIBUTE name  oid  type [flags]
Define a RADIUS attribute name to number mapping.

The \fIname\fP field is a printable field, taken from various
specifications or vendor definitions.  It is most commonly used as a
series of words, separated by hyphens.  e.g. "User-Name".
Vendor-specific attributes (VSAs) are prefixed by the vendor name,
e.g. "Cisco-AVPair".  The names should be globally unique, as they are
used as a key to look up the properties of the attribute.

The \fIoid\fP field is taken from the relevant specification for that
name.  In most cases, it is a decimal number, such as "256".  For
certain attributes, a "dotted number" notation is used, e.g. "1.2".
The "dotted number" notation is used only for certain attributes.

The \fItype\fP field can be one of the standard types:

     string       UTF-8 printable text (the RFCs call this "text")
     octets       opaque binary data (the RFCs call this "string")
     ipaddr       IPv4 address
     date         Seconds since January 1, 1970 (32-bits)
     integer      32-bit unsigned integer
     ipv6addr     IPv6 Address
     ipv6prefix   IPV6 prefix, with mask
     ifid         Interface Id (hex:hex:hex:hex)
     integer64	  64-bit unsigned integer

The \fItype\fP field can be one of the following non-standard types:

     ether        Ethernet MAC address
     abinary      Ascend binary filter format
     byte         8-bit unsigned integer
     short        16-bit unsigned integer
     signed       31-bit signed integer (packed into 32-bit field)
     tlv          Type-Length-Value (allows nested attributes)
     ipv4prefix   IPv4 Prefix as given in RFC 6572.

The last (optional) field of an attribute definition are additional
flags for that attribute, in a comma-separated list.  Previous
versions of the server allowed these flags to include a vendor name.
This behavior may still work, but it is deprecated, and is not
recommended.

The options are:

     encrypt=#    set encryption type 1, 2, or 3.
     has_tag      The attribute can have an RFC 2868 style tag

The "encrypt" flag marks the attribute as being encrypted with one of
three possible methods.  "1" means that the attribute is encrypted
with the method as defined in \fIRFC2865\fP for the User-Password
attribute.  "2" means that the password is encrypted with the method
as defined in \fIRFC2868\fP for the Tunnel-Password attribute.  "3"
means that the attribute is encrypted as per Ascend's definitions for
the Ascend-Send-Secret attribute.

The "has_tag" flag marks the attribute as being permitted to have a
tag, as defined in \fIRFC2868\fP.  The purpose of the tag is to allow
grouping of attributes for tunneled users.  See \fIRFC2868\fP for
more details.

When the server receives an encoded attribute in a RADIUS packet, it
looks up that attribute by number in the dictionary, and uses the
definition found there for printing diagnostic and log messages.  When
the server sees an attribute name in a configuration file, it looks up
that attribute by name in the dictionary, and uses the definition
found there.

.TP 0.5i
.B VALUE attribute-name value-name number
Define an attribute value name to number mapping, for an attribute of
type \fIinteger\fP.  The \fIattribute-name\fP field MUST be previously
defined by an \fIATTRIBUTE\fP entry.  The \fIvalue-name\fP field can
be any non-space text, but is usually taken from \fIRFC2865\fP, or
other documents..  The \fInumber\fP field is also taken from the
relevant documents, for that name.

When the server receives an encoded value in a RADIUS packet, it looks
up the value of that attribute by number in the dictionary, and uses
the name found there for printing diagnostic and log messages.
.TP 0.5i
.B VENDOR vendor-name number [format=...]
Define a Vendor Specific Attribute encapsulation for \fIvendor-name\fP
to \fInumber\fP.  For a list of vendor names and numbers, see
http://www.iana.org/enterprise-numbers.txt.

The "format=t,l" statement tells the server how many octets to use to
encode/decode the vendor "type" and "length" fields in the attributes.
The default is "format=1,1", which does not have to be specified.  For
USR VSA's, the format is "format=4,0", for Lucent VSA's it's
"format=2,1", and for Starent VSA's it's "format=2,2".

The supported values for the number of type octets (i.e. the first
digit) are 1, 2, and 4.  The support values for the number of length
octets (i.e. the second digit) are 0, 1, and 2.  Any combination of
those values will work.

You can also use "format=Extended-Vendor-Specific-1", through
"format=Extended-Vendor-Specific-6".  These define VSAs in the
"extended vendor-specific" space.
.TP 0.5i
.B BEGIN-VENDOR vendor-name
Define the start of a block of Vendor-Specific attributes.  All of the
following \fIATTRIBUTE\fP  definitions are interpreted as being for the
named vendor, until the block is closed by an "END-VENDOR" statement.

This practice is preferred to placing the vendor name at the end of an
\fIATTRIBUTE\fP  definition.
.TP 0.5i
.B END-VENDOR vendor-name
End a previously defined BEGIN-VENDOR block.  The "vendor-name" must match.
.TP 0.5i
.B $INCLUDE filename
Include dictionary entries from the file \fIfilename\fP.  The
\fIfilename\fP is taken as relative to the location of the file which
is asking for the inclusion.
.TP 0.5i
.B BEGIN-TLV name
This feature is supported for backwards compatibility with older
dictionaries.  It should not be used.  The new "oid" form for defining
the attribute number should be used instead.
.TP 0.5i
.B END-TLV name
This feature is supported for backwards compatibility with older
dictionaries.  It should not be used.  The new "oid" form for defining
the attribute number should be used instead.
.PP
.SH FILES
.I /etc/raddb/dictionary,
.I /usr/share/freeradius/dictionary.*
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR radiusd (8),
.BR naslist (5),
.BR RFC2865,
.BR RFC2866,
.BR RFC2868
