.\"     # DS - begin display
.de DS
.RS
.nf
.sp
..
.\"     # DE - end display
.de DE
.fi
.RE
.sp
..
.TH rlm_pap 5 "6 June 2008" "" "FreeRADIUS Module"
.SH NAME
rlm_pap \- FreeRADIUS Module
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIrlm_pap\fP module authenticates RADIUS Access-Request packets
that contain a User-Password attribute.  The module should also be
listed last in the \fIauthorize\fP section, so that it can set the
Auth-Type attribute as appropriate.
.PP
When a RADIUS packet contains a clear-text password in the form of a
User-Password attribute, the \fIrlm_pap\fP module may be used for
authentication.  The module requires a "known good" password, which it
uses to validate the password given in the RADIUS packet.  That "known
good" password must be supplied by another module
(e.g. \fIrlm_files\fP, \fIrlm_ldap\fP, etc.), and is usually taken
from a database.
.SH CONFIGURATION
.PP
The only relevant configuration item is:
.IP auto_header
If set to "yes", the module will look inside of the User-Password
attribute for the headers {crypt}, {clear}, etc., and will
automatically create the appropriate attribute, with the correct
value.
.PP
This module understands many kinds of password hashing methods, as
given by the following table.
.PP
.DS
.br
Header       Attribute          Description
.br
------       ---------          -----------
.br
{clear}      Cleartext-Password clear-text passwords
.br
{cleartext}  Cleartext-Password clear-text passwords
.br
{crypt}      Crypt-Password     Unix-style "crypt"ed passwords
.br
{md5}        MD5-Password       MD5 hashed passwords
.br
{smd5}       SMD5-Password      MD5 hashed passwords, with a salt
.br
{sha}        SHA-Password       SHA1 hashed passwords
.br
{ssha}       SSHA-Password      SHA1 hashed passwords, with a salt
.br
{nt}         NT-Password        Windows NT hashed passwords
.br
{x-nthash}   NT-Password        Windows NT hashed passwords
.br
{lm}         LM-Password        Windows Lan Manager (LM) passwords.
.DE

The module tries to be flexible when handling the various password
formats.  It will automatically handle Base-64 encoded data, hex
strings, and binary data, and convert them to a format that the server
can use.
.PP
It is important to understand the difference between the User-Password
and Cleartext-Password attributes.  The Cleartext-Password attribute
is the "known good" password for the user.  Simply supplying the
Cleartext-Password to the server will result in most authentication
methods working.  The User-Password attribute is the password as typed
in by the user on their private machine.  The two are not the same,
and should be treated very differently.  That is, you should generally
not use the User-Password attribute anywhere in the RADIUS
configuration.
.PP
For backwards compatibility, there are old configuration parameters
which may be work, although we do not recommend using them.
.SH SECTIONS
.BR authorize
.BR authenticate
.PP
.SH FILES
.I /etc/raddb/radiusd.conf
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR radiusd (8),
.BR radiusd.conf (5)
.SH AUTHOR
Alan DeKok <aland@freeradius.org>

