.\"     # DS - begin display
.de DS
.RS
.nf
.sp
..
.\"     # DE - end display
.de DE
.fi
.RE
.sp
..
.TH rlm_realm 5 "14 March 2004" "" "FreeRADIUS Module"
.SH NAME
rlm_realm \- FreeRADIUS Module
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIrlm_realm\fP module parses the User-Name attribute into a
User section and a Realm section.  This is used primarily in a
proxy situation, however, Realms can also be used locally to provide
different service profiles based on the Realm being used.
.PP
The main configuration items to be aware of are:
.IP format
This can be either 'prefix' or 'suffix'.  It specifies whether the
Realm is before or after the User portion in the User-Name string.
.IP delimiter
A single character in quotes, which is used as the delimiting
character that separates the Realm and User sections of the string.
.IP ignore_default
This is set to either 'yes' or 'no'.  If set to 'yes', this will 
prevent the module instance from matching a realm against the DEFAULT
entry.  This may be useful if you have multiple realm module instances.
The default is 'no'.
.IP ignore_null
This is set to either 'yes' or 'no'.  If set to 'yes', this will 
prevent the module instance from matching a realm against the NULL
entry.  This may be useful if you have multiple realm module instances.
The default is 'no'.
.PP
This module parses the realm from the User-Name attrbiute according
to the instance configuration, and then performs a lookup to find a
matching realm in the '/etc/raddb/proxy.conf' file.  Depending on the
configuration of the Realm as matched in the file, the username may
be rewritten in a 'stripped' format, or with the Realm portion
removed.  In either case, a Realm attribute is created and added to
the packet on a match, which can be used by other modules.
.SH CONFIGURATION
.PP
.DS
modules {
  ... stuff here ...
.br
.br
  # useranme@realm syntax
.br
  realm suffix {
.br
    format = suffix
.br
    delimiter = "@"
.br
  }
.br
.br
   # realm/username syntax
.br
   realm prefix {
.br
    format = prefix
.br
    delimiter = "/"
.br
  }
.br
.br
  ... stuff here ...
.br
}
.DE
.PP
.SH SECTIONS
.BR authorization,
.BR pre-accounting
.PP
.SH FILES
.I /etc/raddb/radiusd.conf,
.I /etc/raddb/proxy.conf
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR radiusd (8),
.BR radiusd.conf (5),
.BR proxy.conf (5)
.SH AUTHORS
Chris Parker, cparker@segv.org
