.\"     # DS - begin display
.de DS
.RS
.nf
.sp
..
.\"     # DE - end display
.de DE
.fi
.RE
.sp
..
.TH rlm_unix 5 "17 February 2005" "" "FreeRADIUS Module"
.SH NAME
rlm_unix \- FreeRADIUS Module
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIrlm_unix\fP module reads crypt(3) passwords from the system
password file, and allows the server to use them for authentication.
The module also provides FreeRADIUS an interface into a radwtmp file
(used by "radlast") when added to the accounting section.
.PP
The \fIrlm_unix\fP module does provides the functionality for
"Auth-Type = System".  The module should be listed in the
"authenticate" section.  Please see the default \fIradiusd.conf\fP
shipped with the server for an example of the correct usage of this
module.
.PP
As of FreeRADIUS 1.1.0, the module no longer reads, or caches
/etc/passwd, /etc/shadow, or /etc/group.  If you wish to cache those
files, see \fIrlm_passwd\fP.  Most, if not all, configurations should
not need those files to be cached.
.PP
The main configuration items to be aware of are:
.IP radwtmp
The path to the system wtmp file to be used for keeping the database
of online users as read by the 'radlast' program.
.SH CONFIGURATION
.PP
.DS
modules {
  ...
.br
  unix {
.br
    radwtmp = ${logdir}/radwtmp
.br
  }
.br
  ...
.br
}
.DE
.PP
.SH SECTIONS
.BR authentication,
.BR accounting
.PP
.SH FILES
.I /etc/raddb/radiusd.conf,
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR radiusd (8),
.BR radiusd.conf (5),
.BR rlm_passwd (5),
.BR radlast (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Chris Parker, cparker@segv.org
