.\"     # DS - begin display
.de DS
.RS
.nf
.sp
..
.\"     # DE - end display
.de DE
.fi
.RE
.sp
..
.TH rlm_passwd 5 "14 April 2004" "" "FreeRADIUS Module"
.SH NAME
rlm_passwd \- FreeRADIUS Module
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIrlm_passwd\fP module provides authorization via files similar
in format to /etc/passwd.
.PP
The \frlm_passwd\fP module allows you to retrieve any account
information from any files with passwd-like format (/etc/passwd,
/etc/group, smbpasswd, .htpasswd, etc).  Every field of the file may
be mapped to a RADIUS attribute, with one of the fields used as a
key.
.PP
The module reads the file when it initializes, and caches the data
in memory.  As a result, it does not support dynamic updates of the
files (the server has to be HUP'd), but it is very fast, even for
files with thousands of lines.
.PP
The configuration item(s):
.IP filename
The path to the file.
.IP delimiter\ =\ ":"
The character to use as a delimiter between fields.  The default is
":"
.IP hash_size
The size of the hashtable.  If 0, then the passwords are not cached
and the passwd file is parsed for every request.  We do not recommend
such a configuration.  A larger hash_size means less probability of
collision and faster search in hashtable. Having a hash_size in the range
of 30-100% of the number of passwd file records is reasonable.
.IP allow_multiple_keys
If set to 'yes', and more than one record in file matches the request,
then the attributes from all records will be used. If set to 'no' (the
default) the module will warn about duplicated records.
.IP ignore_nislike
If set to 'yes', then all records from the file beginning with the '+'
sign will be ignored.  The default is 'no'.
.IP format
The format of the fields in the file, given as an example line from
the file, with the content of the fields as the RADIUS attributes
which the fields map to.  The fields are seperated by the ':' character.
.PP
The key field is signified by being preceded with a '*' character,
which indicates that the field has only one key, like the /etc/passwd
file.  The key field may instead be preceded with '*,', which
indicates that the field has multiple possible keys, like the
/etc/group file.
.PP
The other fields signify RADIUS attributes which, by default, are
added to the configuration items for a request. 
.PP
To add an attribute to the request (as though it was sent by the NAS),
prefix the attribute name in the "format" string with the '~' character.
.PP
To add an attribute to the reply (to be sent back to the NAS) prefix
the attribute name in the "format" string with the '=' character.
.IP ignore_empty
This configuration item defaults to "yes".  If there is no value for
the attribute, then the attribute is not added.  By setting this value
to "no", you can force the attribute to be added, even if there is no
value.

.SH EXAMPLES
.DS
format = "My-Group:::*,User-Name"
.DE
.IP
Parse a file similar to the /etc/group file.  An entry matches a
request when the name in a User-Name attribute exists in the
comma-seperated list of a line in the file.  When an entry matches, 
a "My-Group" attribute will be created and added to the configuration
items for the request.  The value of that attribute will be taken from
the first field of the matching line in the file.
.IP
The ":::" in the format string means that there are extra two fields
in the line, in between the group name and list of user names.  Those
fields do not map to any RADIUS attribute, and are therefore ignored.
.IP
For this example to work in practice, you will have to add the
My-Group attribute to the dictionary file.  See the dictionary manual
page for details on how this may be done.
.PP
.DS
format = "~My-Group:::*,User-Name"
.DE
.IP
Similar to the previous entry, except the My-Group attribute is added
to the request, as though it was sent by the NAS.
.SH SECTIONS
.BR authorize
.PP
.SH FILES
.I /etc/raddb/radiusd.conf
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR radiusd (8),
.BR radiusd.conf (5)
.BR dictionary (5),
.SH AUTHOR
Alan DeKok <aland@freeradius.org>

