.\"     # DS - begin display
.de DS
.RS
.nf
.sp
..
.\"     # DE - end display
.de DE
.fi
.RE
.sp
..
.TH rlm_sql 5 "5 February 2004" "" "FreeRADIUS Module"
.SH NAME
rlm_sql \- FreeRADIUS Module
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIrlm_sql\fP module provides an SQL interface to retrieve
authorization information and store accounting information.  It can be
used in conjunction with, or in lieu of the files and detail modules.
The SQL module has drivers to support the following SQL databases:
.PP
.DS
.br
     db2
.br
     iodbc
.br
     mysql
.br
     oracle
.br
     postgresql
.br
     sybase
.br
     unixodbc
.br
.DE
.PP
Due to the size of the configuration variables, the sql module is
usually configured in a separate file, which is included in the main
radiusd.conf via an include directive.
.PP
The main configuration items to be aware of are:
.IP driver
This variable specifies the driver to be loaded.
.IP server
.IP login
.IP password
These specify the servername, username, and password the module will
use to connect to the database.
.IP radius_db
The name of the database where the radius tables are stored.
.IP acct_table1
.IP acct_table2
These specify the tables names for accounting records.  acct_table1
specifies the table where Start records are stored.  acct_table2
specifies the table where Stop records are stored.  In most cases,
this should be the same table.
.IP postauth_table
The name of the table to store post-authentication data.
.IP authcheck_table
.IP authreply_table
The tables where individual Check-Items and Reply-Items are stored.
.IP groupcheck_table
.IP groupreply_table
The tables where group Check-Items and Reply-Items are stored.
.IP usergroup_table
The table where username to group relationships are stored.
.IP deletestatlesessions
This option is set to 'yes' or 'no'.  If you are doing
Simultaneous-Use checking, and this is set to yes, stale sessions (
defined as sessions for which a Stop record was not received ) will be
cleared.
.IP logfile
This option is useful for debugging sql problems.  If logfile is set
then all sql queries for the containing section are written to the
file specified.  This is useful for debugging and bulk inserts.
.IP num_sql_socks
The number of sql connections to make to the database.
.IP connect_failure_retry_delay
The number of seconds to wait before attempting to reconnect to a
failed database connection.
.IP sql_user_name
This is the definition of the SQL-User-Name attribute.  This is set
once, so that you can use %{SQL-User-Name} in the SQL queries, rather
than the nested username substitution.  This ensures that Username is
parsed consistently for all SQL queries executed.
.IP default_user_profile
This is the default profile name that will be applied to all users if
set.  This is not set by default.
.IP query_on_not_found
This option is set to 'yes' or 'no'.  If set to yes, then the default
user profile is returned if no specific match was found for the user.
.IP authorize_check_query
.IP authorize_reply_query
These queries are run during the authorization stage to extract the
user authorization information from the ${authcheck_table} and
${authreply_table}.
.IP authorize_group_check_query
.IP authorize_group_reply_query
These queries are run during the authorization stage to extract the
group authorization information from the ${groupcheck_table} and
${groupreply_table}.
.IP accounting_onoff_query
The query to be run when receiving an Accounting On or Accounting Off
packet.
.IP accounting_update_query
.IP accounting_update_query_alt
The query to be run when receiving an Accounting Update packet.  If the
primary query fails, the alt query is run.
.IP accounting_start_query
.IP accounting_start_query_alt
The query to be run when receiving an Accounting Start packet.  If the
primary query fails, the alt query is run.
.IP accounting_stop_query
.IP accounting_stop_query_alt
The query to be run when receiving an Accounting Stop packet.  If the
primary query fails, the alt query is run.
.IP simul_count_query
The query to be run to return the number simultaneous sessions for the
purposes of limiting Simultaneous Use.
.IP simul_verify_query
The query to return the detail information needed to confirm that all
suspected connected sessions are valid, and are not stale sessions.
.IP group_membership_query
The query to run to check user group membership.
.IP postauth_query
The query to run during the post-authentication stage.
.SH CONFIGURATION
.PP
Due to the size of the configuration for this module, it is not
included in this manual page.  Please review the supplied
configuration files for example queries and configuration details.
.SH SECTIONS
.BR authorization,
.BR accounting,
.BR checksimul,
.BR post-authentication
.PP
.SH FILES
.I /etc/raddb/radiusd.conf,
.I /etc/raddb/sql.conf,
.I /etc/raddb/sql/<DB>/dialup.conf,
.I /etc/raddb/sql/<DB>/schema.sql,
.BR
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR radiusd (8),
.BR radiusd.conf (5),
.SH AUTHORS
Chris Parker, cparker@segv.org
