.\"     # DS - begin display
.de DS
.RS
.nf
.sp
..
.\"     # DE - end display
.de DE
.fi
.RE
.sp
..
.TH rlm_detail 5 "27 June 2013" "" "FreeRADIUS Module"
.SH NAME
rlm_detail \- FreeRADIUS Module
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIrlm_detail\fP module writes radius packets to 'detail' files.
It is primarily used for storing accounting information, but can be
used in other sections to write packet details as well.
.PP
The file format is similar to that of the old Livingston servers, and
many 'detail' file parsers should work with FreeRADIUS.
.PP
The main configuration items to be aware of are:
.IP file
The file name in which to store the radius packet records.  NOTE: this
variable is run through dynamic string expansion, and can include
FreeRADIUS variables to create a dynamic filename.
.PP
     %{radacctdir}/%{Client-IP-Address}/detail-%Y%m
.PP
     This will create one file per month, for each client.  
     This accomplishes 'file rotation' automatically from 
     within the server.
.PP
.IP perm
The file permissions of the file.  
If omitted, the default is 0600.
.IP dirperm
The directory permissions of the directory where the detail files are
created.  The default is 0755.
.IP locking
This option is set to 'yes' or 'no'.  By default it is 'no'.  Set this
to yes to enable file locking, which is used with the 'radrelay'
program.
.SH CONFIGURATION
.PP
.DS
modules {
  ...
.br
  detail {
.br
    filename = %A/%{Client-IP-Address}/detail-%Y%m
.br
    permissions = 0600
.br
    dir_permissions = 0755
.br
    locking = no
.br
  }
.br
  ... 
.br
}
  ...
.br
accounting {
 ...
.br
 detail
 ...
.br
}
.DE
.PP
.SH SECTIONS
.BR authorization,
.BR accounting,
.BR pre_proxy,
.BR post_proxy,
.BR post_authentication
.PP
.SH FILES
.I /etc/raddb/radiusd.conf
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR radiusd (8),
.BR radiusd.conf (5)
.SH AUTHORS
Chris Parker, cparker@segv.org
