.\"     # DS - begin display
.de DS
.RS
.nf
.sp
..
.\"     # DE - end display
.de DE
.fi
.RE
.sp
..
.TH rlm_mschap 5 "13 March 2004" "" "FreeRADIUS Module"
.SH NAME
rlm_mschap \- FreeRADIUS Module
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIrlm_mschap\fP module provides MS-CHAP and MS-CHAPv2
authentication support. 
.PP
This module validates a user with MS-CHAP or MS-CHAPv2 
authentication.
If called in Authorize, it will look for MS-CHAP Challenge/Response
attributes in the Acess-Request and adds an Auth-Type
attribute set to MS-CHAP in the Config-Items list unless 
Auth-Type has already set.
.PP
The module can authenticate the MS-CHAP session via plain-text
passwords (User-Password attribute), or NT passwords (NT-Password
attribute).  The module cannot perform authentication against an NT
domain.
.PP
The module also enforces the SMB-Account-Ctrl attribute.  See the
Samba documentation for the meaning of SMB account control.  The
module does not read Samba password files.  Instead, the fIrlm_passwd\fP
module can be used to read a Samba password file, and supply an
NT-Password attribute which this module can use.
.PP
The main configuration items to be aware of are:
.IP authtype
This is the string used to set the authtype.  Normally it should be
left to the default value of MS-CHAP.
.IP use_mppe
Unless this is set to 'no', FreeRADIUS will add MS-CHAP-MPPE-Keys for
MS-CHAPv1 and MS-MPPE-Recv-Key/MS-MPPE-Send-Key for MS-CHAPv2.  The
default is 'yes'.
.IP require_encryption
If MPPE is enabled, setting this attribute to 'yes' will cause the
MS-MPPE-Encryption-Policy attribute to be set to require encryption.
The default is 'no'.
.IP require_strong
If MPPE is enabled, setting this attribute to 'yes' will cause the
MS-MPPE-Encryption-Types attribute to be set to require a 128 bit key.
The default is 'no'.
.IP with_ntdomain_hack
Windows clients send User-Name in the form of "DOMAIN\\User", but send the
challenge/response based only on the User portion.  Setting this value
to yes, enables a work-around for this error.  The default is 'no'.
.PP
.SH CONFIGURATION
.DS
modules {
  ...
.br
  mschap {
.br
	authtype = MS-CHAP
.br
	use_mppe = yes	
.br
  }
.br
  ...
.br
}
.br
 ...
.br
authorize {
  ...
.br
  mschap
.br
  ...
.br
}
 ...
.br
authenticate {
  ...
.br
  mschap
.br
  ...
.br
}
.DE
.PP
.SH SECTIONS
.BR authorization,
.BR authentication
.PP
.SH FILES
.I /etc/raddb/radiusd.conf
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR radiusd (8),
.BR radiusd.conf (5)
.SH AUTHOR
Chris Parker, cparker@segv.org

