.\" Copyright (C) 2002-2007, 2014-2023 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
.\"
.\" This document is dual-licensed.  You may distribute and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of either of the following licenses:
.\"
.\" * The GNU General Public License, as published by the Free Software
.\"   Foundation, version 3 or (at your option) any later version.  You
.\"   should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"   along with this program.  If not, see
.\"   <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" * The GNU Free Documentation License, as published by the Free
.\"   Software Foundation, version 1.2 or (at your option) any later
.\"   version, with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no
.\"   Back-Cover Texts.  You should have received a copy of the GNU Free
.\"   Documentation License along with this program.  If not, see
.\"   <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.TH RNANO 1 "version 7.2" "January 2023"

.SH NAME
rnano \- a restricted nano

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rnano
.RI [ options "] [[+" line [, column "]]\ " file "]..."

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBrnano\fR runs the \fBnano\fR editor in restricted mode.  This allows
editing only the specified file or files, and doesn't allow the user
access to the filesystem nor to a command shell.
.sp
In restricted mode, \fBnano\fR will:
.IP \[bu] 2
not allow suspending;
.IP \[bu]
not allow saving the current buffer under a different name;
.IP \[bu]
not allow inserting another file or opening a new buffer;
.IP \[bu]
not allow appending or prepending to any file;
.IP \[bu]
not make backup files nor do spell checking.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show the available command-line options and exit.
.P
For all existing options, see the \fBnano\fR(1) man page.

.SH BUGS
Please report bugs via
.IR https://savannah.gnu.org/bugs/?group=nano .

.SH HOMEPAGE
.I https://nano-editor.org/

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR nano (1)
